Frequently Asked Questions | Industrial and Systems Engineering
Skip to main content
Frequently Asked Questions
Q: Where is the ISE department located?
A: The ISE department is located at San José State University, One Washington Square,
San Jose, CA 95192-0085 in the College of Engineering Building, 4th Floor, Room ENG
485. We are right by the corner of San Fernando and 7th St. in Downtown San José.
Q: What are the office hours?
Our office hours are M & W 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM, T &Th & F 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM. However,
please note that we are closed for a one hour lunch break from 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM.
If no one is at the desk or the office is locked during operating hours, please see
Gurpinder in ENG 491B or email us
.
Q: How do I contact the department?
You can call our main telephone line at 408-924-3301 or send us an email at
industrialsystems-dept@sjsu.edu
.
Q: Can I register for classes through the web? How do I check my grades?
A: You can register online and check your grades at
My SJSU
.
Q: Who is the ISE department chairperson?
A: The ISE Department Chairperson is
Dr. Yasser Dessouky
.
Q: I was told I need to see an advisor, but I don't know who my advisor is.
A: Engineering Management graduate students must contact Dr. Minnie Patel.
MS ISE graduate students must contact Dr. Ayca Erdogan.
MS HFE graduate students must contact Dr. Anil Kumar.
All undergraduate students must contact the Engineering Student Success Center for
advising.
Undergraduate students who are looking to have their minor in an ISE degree must contact
Dr. Yasser Dessouky.
Q: Are there any student organizations in ISE?
A: Yes, the organization is called IIE and is listed as SJSU IIE on the navigation
bar. We also have Engineering Management Student Chapter. Contact Dr. Patel for more
information.
Q: Is the MS-EM program STEM certified?
A: Yes, the MS-EM program is a STEM program.
Q: How can I apply to the MS-EM program?
A: Visit
Domestic Steps to Admission
for details on the application process.
Q: I am an international student. How do I apply?
A: Visit
International Steps to Admission
for details on the application process.
Q: What additional documents are needed to apply?
A: Please visit the
Degree Requirements
page for more information on MS programs. All documents will be sent to the Graduate
Admissions Office and not to the ISE department, we do NOT handle admission applications.
Undergraduate students will follow the CSU application requirements.
Q: Do I need to submit a Statement of Purpose in my application?
A: Yes. There should be a designated section in the CalApply application for your
SOP.
Q: What is the minimum requirement for GRE?**
A: 285. The GRE is not required for MS ISE and MS ISE Operational Analytics. The GRE
is no longer required for MS Engineering Management beginning Fall 2024.
**Please note that the GRE is NO longer required
Q: What is the minimum requirement for IELTS?
A: 6.5
Q: What is the minimum TOEFL requirement?
A: 80
Q: Are recommendation letters required?
A: No. However, they may be helpful for applicants whose grade-point average (GPA)
is lower than 3.0 (on a scale of 4).  Please do not send any LORs unless contacted
by the MS EM advisor, Dr. Minnie Patel.
A: HFE UX does require 3 letters of recommendation. Please do not send in LORs to
the department email.
Q: Where should I send documents?
A: Please send all application documents to GAPE (not to the ISE Department).
Q: I have additional questions, whom should I contact?
A: Please visit
GAPE
and read the content thoroughly before emailing questions. Deadlines, documents,
fees, and other details can be found on GAPE as well.
Q: Can I get an application fee waiver as a graduate student if I'm an international
student or have financial complications?
A: No, the CSU policy states that anyone who applies for a graduate's program (Master's
or Doctorate's) cannot receive an application fee waiver.
Q: I still have questions!
A: Send an email to
industrialsystems-dept@sjsu.edu
.
Last Updated Feb 12, 2026