I'm entering as a freshman. What do I do?
Make sure to attend
frosh orientation
, as described in the material sent to you by the university upon your acceptance.
Strongly consider enrolling for Science 2 (Sci 002) in your first semester.
At the beginning of the semester, meet with the College of Science Student Success
Center (CoS-SSC) advisor, as described on the
CS department advising web site
.
.  Be aware that this program is only a sample, and will not be appropriate for every
student.  The department web site contains a
prerequisite chart
.
Also see the answer to the question about the computing devices you will need as an
SJSU CS major.
modified, April 2020
Does the department participate in the Four-Year Graduation Pledge Program?
Yes, although the conditions for BSCS students are very strict due to the large number
of required courses in the program. In addition to all university requirements, you
must get grades of C- or better in all courses, not repeat any courses, be ready to
start calculus in your first semester, and stick with the
sample program publicized by the department
unless your advisor has approved a deviation.  You may need to avoid probation, since
students on probation may be allowed to register for only a limited number of units,
and may be best advised to take optional workshop courses.
For more details, contact the
CS undergraduate coordinator
.
slightly modified, August 2016
What is Science 2? What is Science 90T?
Science 2 (Sci 002) is a course designed to improve retention rates in science and
engineering and poor student preparation in general. Effective Fall 2007, it is a
permitted General Education course under Area E. It is an appropriate course for a
substantial proportion of frosh CS majors. Since the course is a General Education
course, you can count it toward graduation (if you have not already taken another
Area E course).
See the
Science 2 web site
for more information.
There is a similar course for transfer students, Science 90. This course is not approved
for GE. Note that different sections of this course may have different subtitles.
slightly modified, April 20
Does the first computer science course (CS 46A) assume any background in computing?
Officially, no. However, a number of students in the past have attempted to take the
course with little experience with computing. Many of these students have not succeeded.
If you don't have any computer experience, you might consider first taking CS 22A.
Note that CS 22A will not count toward the BSCS degree.  Another possibility is to
take an introductory programming course at a community college.  At many schools,
an appropriate course is the prerequisite course to the
CS 46A equivalent
.  Such a course, however will not count toward the BSCS degree.
modified, April 2020
Questions relevant to transfer students and potential transfer students
What is the STAR Act?  What is SB 1440?  What is C-ID?  What is an AS-T degree?
SB 1440, the STAR act, is a California law designed to improve the interface between
community college programs and CSU degree programs. C-ID is a course numbering system
used in the implementation of this act. Students with an appropriate AS degree (an
"AS degree for transfer", or "AS-T degree", in computer science) are automatically
exempt from certain BSCS requirements.
You do not need to have an AS-T degree in order to transfer from a community college
to the BSCS program at SJSU.
One provision of the STAR act effectively requires that students with an appropriate
AS-T degree need at most 60 units beyond the AS to complete the 120-unit BSCS program
at SJSU.  Sample programs for the various BSCS requirements showing how the BSCS can
be attained in 4 semesters of 60 total units are available on the
CS department web site
.  Such a sample program will not be appropriate for every student.
Students with an AS-T degree in CS will be given BSCS credit for Math 30 and 31 and
42, Physics 50 and 51, CS 46A and 46B, and 47, and all but 12 units of General Education.
AS-T students are
exempt from the Physical Education
requirement at SJSU.
The sample program assumes that students will be able to pass the
Writing Skills Test (WST)
without any additional coursework, and have completed the American Institutions requirement
as part of their AS degree. Students for whom these assumptions are not true should
see the
undergraduate coordinator
to see how they can complete the BSCS in only 60 additional units.
slightly modified, December 2015
I'm considering entering as a transfer student.  What do I do?
For general information about transferring to SJSU, see the university web pages on
Transfer Admission Requirements
and
SJSU Undergraduate Degrees and Impaction
.  Pay special attention to the section on transferring as a lower-division student
if this is relevant to you, since this kind of transfers may not be possible in a
given semester.  Impaction is important since it is likely to result in a minimum
GPA requirement for transfer, which you can check by clicking on the impaction link.
If you are reasonably sure that you want to be a CS major, you are a community college
student, and you think you will be attending SJSU or another California State University,
you should seriously consider getting an AS-T degree in CS.  Also check the section
on transfer associate degrees on the web page mentioned above.
If you are not able to complete all of the coursework that is part of an AS-T degree
in CS by the time you are ready to transfer, you should at least try to complete the
Computer Science portion of the program. The other courses can be made up easily when
you arrive at SJSU.
Since SJSU uses Java for its introductory courses, if the institution you are attending
gives you a choice between a Java-based introduction to computing and an introduction
that uses another language, it will probably be better for you to take the Java-based
introduction.
There is a 70-unit limit on units transferred from a two-year college, but this limit
is irrelevant for determining which requirements in the major you have satisfied.
Ideally you will be prepared to take the
Writing Skills Test (WST)
when you arrive at SJSU.
Also see the answer to the next question.
somewhat modified, August 2015
I'm entering as a transfer student.  What do I do?
Attend a transfer orientation session
Make sure to attend one of the campus Transfer Orientation sessions, as described
in the material sent to you by the university upon your acceptance.
Are you ready to start upper-division coursework in Computer Science?
Determine, preferably in consultation with an advisor, whether you are ready to start
upper-division coursework in Computer Science.
If you have successfully completed equivalents of CS 46A and CS 46B that use the Java
language, then you have the computing background needed for CS 146 (Data Structures
and Algorithms) and CS 151 (Object-Oriented Design).  You should consider taking these
courses in your first semester at SJSU if you have met their mathematics prerequisites.
If you have successfully completed equivalents of CS 46A and CS 46B that use a language
other than Java, then you should enroll in CS 49J (Programming in Java) as soon as
possible.   After completing CS 49J successfully, you should take CS 146 and CS 151
as soon as you can.
If you have successfully completed a CS 46A equivalent but not a CS 46B equivalent,
then if the CS 46A equivalent used Java you may enroll in CS 46B.  Otherwise you should
consider enrolling in CS 49J and then CS 46B, and then following the instructions
above for students who took equivalents of CS 46A and 46B in Java.  CS 49J may be
counted as an elective for the CS major. If you have not successfully completed a
CS 46A equivalent, then you should enroll in CS 46A.
If you want, you may instead take a
46B equivalent
at the same institution where you took your 46A equivalent, and then follow the instructions
above for students whose 46A and 46B equivalencies didn't use Java.
A third possibility is to simply take CS 46A at SJSU.  Your 46A will almost certainly
count as equivalent to CS 49C if it used C or C++, and will likely count as an elective
for the CS major -- consult the Computer Science Department's
undergraduate coordinator
.
Take the Writing Skills Test (WST)
Take the
Writing Skills Test (WST)
as early as you can -- unless you have been exempted from the CS 100W and General
Education Area Z requirements. This test is a prerequisite for CS 100W, and all other
SJSU studies courses.  Many students transferring into the CS major have satisfied
all graduation requirements except for SJSU Studies and coursework in the Math and
CS departments. If you are one of these students and you haven't taken the Writing
Skills Test, then in your first semester you will either have to take all your classes
in Math or CS, or take classes that won't help you graduate.  And you may not be able
to take very many classes in Math or CS, depending on which prerequisite courses you
have taken, and on your knowledge of Java.
Take CS 100W
It is a good idea to take CS 100W as early as possible, since it helps you in all
of your other courses.  In particular, CS 100W is a prerequisite for the required
software engineering course CS 160.  It's not uncommon for students to have to delay
their graduation because they did not take CS 100W early enough.
, and the web pages containing the
BSCS requirements and the associated sample programs
). In particular, check the prerequisites for the courses you plan to take.  The department
web site contains a
prerequisite chart
that shows the mathematics and CS prerequisites for all CS courses that count toward
the BS in CS.
modified, April 2020
Can I get credit toward the BSCS degree based on Advanced Placement (AP) exams?
Current CS Department policy is to give 3 units of credit and a CS 46A waiver to any
student scoring 3 or better on the Computer Science A exam. The department currently
grants a Math 30 waiver to any student scoring 3 or better on the Calculus AB exam.
We give waivers for both Math 30 and Math 31 to any student scoring 3 or better on
the Calculus BC exam.
The department grants a Physics 50 waiver to any student scoring 3 or better on Part
1 of the Physics C exam. We grant a Physics 51 waiver to any student scoring 3 or
better on Part 2 of this exam.
Since they are accepted as equivalents to GE courses, credit toward the 14-unit science
requirement will be given for the Physics B exam or the Chemistry AP exam, to students
who are not also counting a substantially similar course toward the BSCS science requirement.
Neither of these exams may be used to satisfy the 5-unit science requirement, or the
additional science course BSCS requirement in effect before Fall 2014.
modified, April 2020
Can lower-division courses I have taken at other institutions count toward the BSCS
degree? If so, will they be recorded on MySJSU?
The university maintains a list of articulation agreements for SJSU courses. If an
SJSU course is articulated with a course at another institution, then this latter
course is automatically accepted in place of the SJSU course with which it is articulated.
You may view the university's list of articulated courses either
sorted by college
or
sorted by subject
.
Statewide information regarding transfers and transfer credit is available at
http://www.assist.org/
.
In addition to articulated courses, lower-division courses that are substantially
similar to CS courses at SJSU may be used to satisfy major requirements.
However to make sure that university officials know which BSCS requirements you have
satisfied, and to make sure that your course instructors know that you have met course
prerequisites, you need to meet with an advisor to make sure that your prior coursework
gets recorded properly.  The best time to do this is at your Transfer Orientation
session.
Make sure you bring:
1 - transcripts showing all work you are attempting to transfer toward the BSCS (unofficial
transcripts are fine, but make sure that each one includes your name or other information
that identifies the transcript as yours), and
2 - catalog information (in the English language if at all possible) from the schools
and years when and where you took the courses you are trying to transfer. Your advisor
MIGHT be satisfied with looking at the school's web site, or at course green sheets,
outlines, or syllabi.
If you have transfer courses that count toward the BSCS, you and your advisor will
fill out a
Course Equivalency Form [pdf]
. It's this form that you can use to demonstrate to instructors of your first semester's
classes that you have the appropriate prerequisites.
The course equivalency form is not appropriate for General Education courses. GE courses
taken elsewhere are approved by
a separate process [pdf]
.
Courses that are articulated with SJSU courses will appear on MySJSU with an indication
of the articulated SJSU course once the transcript is posted on MySJSU. This may take
as long as a semester. The articulation will then be considered  in the computation
of how many of your graduation requirements you have met.
modified, April 2020
Can I use courses taken elsewhere to satisfy upper-division BSCS requirements at SJSU?
In general
Upper-division courses that were taken at a UC or CSU before entering the CS major,
and that closely match SJSU courses allowable for that major, may be used to waive
the corresponding SJSU BSCS requirements.
A lower division linear algebra course is likely to be accepted for waiver of the
Math 129A requirement. A combined course in linear algebra and differential equations
of at least 5 semester units is likely to be accepted for waiver of the Math 129A
requirement.
For current CS majors, waiver of upper-division courses by coursework taken elsewhere
while a student is a CS major at SJSU must be approved IN ADVANCE by the department.
This includes courses taken at SJSU outside the CS department.
In rare cases, a lower-division course taken at a topnotch institution before a student
enters the CS major at SJSU may be used to waive an upper-division BSCS requirement
at SJSU.
Otherwise, waivers or substitutions for upper-division BSCS requirements are very
unlikely to be approved.
Notes
Note that waiving a requirement is not the same thing as substituting one course for
another. Using a lower-division course to waive an upper-division course means you
have satisfied the upper division requirement with a lower division course. It does
not mean that you get credit for the upper division units. In particular, the courses
that you use for "Support for the Major" and "Requirements in the Major" must still
include
the proper number of units
of upper division mathematics and computer science coursework, excluding CS 100W
and CS 110L.
To make sure that equivalent courses are credited toward your BSCS, you should follow
the procedure described in the previous question.
Upper-division GE courses (SJSU studies courses) generally need to be taken at SJSU.
The one exception to this policy is detailed in the discussion of CS 100W in the answer
to the question on SJSU studies.
modified, April 2020
Questions about entering the CS major or minor
How can I change my major to computer science?
Entry into the CS major at SJSU is now competitive. The rules for applying to
change your major to computer science
are given on the CS department's web site. They apply to students seeking a double
major and students returning who were not in good standing in the major or the university
when they left, as well as to students seeking to change their only major.
Note that if you take CS courses in the hopes of being admitted to the major, and
are not admitted, you will have a very good start toward the CS minor.
modified, January 2018
How do I go about getting a minor in computer science?
You must meet the following requirements before you can declare a CS minor:
SJSU Cumulative GPA of 2.7 or better.
Complete the following courses with a B- or better average and with a grade of C or
better in each:
1. Math 42.
2. CS 46A (or equivalent course in Java).
More Information
If you are interested in declaring a CS minor, it's wise to see the
Computer Science Minor advisor
.
The
requirements for the computer science minor
are listed on the Computer Science department web site.
If you cannot preregister for a class, there is space available in the class, and
you have the prerequisites for the class, most CS instructors will be happy to add
you to their class. However during some semesters many or most classes are full by
the first day of instruction, and you may not be able to add the courses you need.
So there's a significant chance that even students who complete the first few classes
for their minor will not be able to get the remaining classes.  This means that your
progress toward the minor may be halted at any point, and you should be aware of this
possibility before beginning the coursework toward the CS minor.
If you cannot complete your CS minor, submit
this form [pdf]
to drop the minor.
modified, October, 2024
What is disqualification from the university?  How does it differ from disqualification
from the major?  Can I get back into the major after I have been disqualified?  What
is academic probation?
An undergraduate student whose SJSU GPA falls too far below 2.0 is subject to disqualification
from the university. The university's policy on
disqualification
is given in the university catalog.  If you are disqualified from SJSU, then you
are no longer enrolled at SJSU, although you may petition for reinstatement.  Disqualified
students are eligible to take courses through
Open University
.
For information about petitioning for reinstatement, check the
Office of the Registrar
. The university's policy on
reinstatement
is given in the university catalog.
Reinstatement is not automatic.  Petitioners generally need to demonstrate that they
are capable of succeeding in university level work.  Except for the occasional hardship
case, this is done simply by raising one's SJSU GPA back to 2.0.
Note that if you are disqualified from the university, then you are no longer enrolled
in any major. If you become eligible for reinstatement, you must reapply to the university.
You may reapply in a different major than your original major. Reinstatement into
the computer science major for disqualified students is subject to the same
requirements
as for ordinary changes of major, and is very unlikely to be possible.
Academic probation
is a first step toward disqualification from the university. The relevant SJSU policy
is given in the university catalog.  Every semester, a registration hold is placed
on all students on academic probation.  For information about removing this hold,
and for general advising information related to probation, see the question on removing
advising and probation holds.
Effective Fall 2014, Computer Science majors are now subject to disqualification from
the major and probation in the major.  The
policy
in both cases is that of the College of Science.  The university policy on
disqualification
from the major is given in the university catalog.  Again, reinstatement into the
computer science major for disqualified students is subject to the same
requirements
as for ordinary changes of major, and is very unlikely to be possible.
somewhat modified, June 2022
Questions about particular courses or groups of courses
Are there any General Education requirements that are satisfied automatically by the
major?
Yes. The calculus courses in the major cover Area B4.  Areas Z and V of
SJSU Studies
are also covered with the required courses CS 100W  (Technical Writing Workshop)
and Phil 134 (Computers, Ethics, and Society).
For more information about Core GE, SJSU studies, and the General Education requirements,
check the
Schedule of Classes
(in the online version, select the appropriate semester's Policies, and Procedures,
and then follow the General Education (GE) link).  Or see a
CoS-SSC advisor
.
somewhat modified, April 2025
What is Phil 134?
Phil 134 (Computers, Ethics, and Society) is a General Education course that satisfies
the Area V  requirement.  It was designed specifically for Computer Science majors,
and focuses on the ethics and social impact of computing.
See the following question for information about substitutions for Phil 134.
somewhat modified, August 2015
What is SJSU Studies?
SJSU Studies is the advanced portion of General Education.  It consists of four requirements
-- one course each from Areas R, S, V, and Z. Two requirements are met by BSCS Support
Courses -- the Area Z requirement is met by CS 100W  (Technical Writing Workshop)
and the Area V requirement is met by Phil 134 (Computers, Ethics, and Society).
Students using requirements in effect before Fall 2014 may use certain courses to
satisfy both the "additional science requirement" and the Area R requirement -- many
students have taken advantage of this double counting.
Note that Phil 134 is specifically a course in the ethics and social impact of computing.
No substitute course is available at SJSU. If you are a second baccalaureate student,
you will still need to satisfy this requirement, even though you are exempt from all
GE requirements. On the other hand, if your degree is from another institution and
you've already taken a course or courses with significant coverage of the ethics and
social impact of computing, you may be able to waive the Phil 134 requirement. However
in this case, you will still need to satisfy the Area V requirement (unless you are
a second baccalaureate student).
All SJSU studies courses officially require completion of
Core GE
and successful completion of the
Writing Skills Test (WST)
(or an exemption from 100W).  Many SJSU Studies courses have 100W as at least a corequisite.
The university expects you to take the WST in the semester in which you achieve 75
earned units (counting no more than 70 community college units). The
SJSU Advising Hub
gives suggestions on what you can do if you cannot pass the WST.
For the BSCS, a sufficiently high score on the WST will exempt you from the 100W requirement.
The only other exemption that is routinely granted by the CS department is for students
who passed an appropriate 100W course while enrolled as a math or science or engineering
major. However note that for BSCS students, Engr 100W may count only toward Area Z,
and not toward Area R.
Sometimes the department will waive the CS 100W requirement for second baccalaureate
or other transfer students based on upper-division writing courses taken at other
institutions. Almost always in these cases the Area Z requirement is also waived by
the university, although there is no guarantee that this will happen. Occasionally,
if the other institution's course is not a technical writing course, the Area Z requirement
is waived for a student but the CS 100W requirement is not.
For more information about General Education requirements, or the related but distinct
American Institutions requirements, check the
Schedule of Classes
. Select the Policies and Procedures, and the General Education (GE) links. Or see
.
somewhat modified, August 2015
What is the difference between the calculus courses Math 30 and Math 30P?  What are
Math 19, Math 19W, Math 30W, Math 31W, and Math 32W?
Math 30P is an alternate entry point into the traditional calculus sequence of Math
30, 31, and 32. In other words, either version of Calculus I, Math 30 or Math 30P,
may be used as a prerequisite for Math 31, provided that you get a C- or better in
the course that you take. Math 30P is 5 units and Math 30 is 3 units. This difference
stems from the fact that Math 30P contains some precalculus material.
Math 19 is a traditional precalculus course.  Math 19W, 30W, 31W, and 32W are workshop
courses that have been developed to help increase student success in precalculus and
calculus..
modified, April 2020
How do I know whether I have satisfied the language prerequisite for CS 46B (or 49J
or 146 or 151)?
If you took CS 46A at SJSU, you have satisfied the language prerequisite for CS 46B.
If you took CS 46B at SJSU, you have satisfied the language prerequisite for both
CS 146 and 151.  If you took CS 49J at SJSU, you have satisfied the language prerequisite
for both CS 146 and CS 151.  If you took CS 46A at SJSU, you should not take CS 49J.
If you haven't satisfied one of these language prerequisites by taking an SJSU course,
you should have learned at your initial CS advising session whether you have satisfied
these prerequisites.
For more information, please check out the
Java Language Requirement flowcharts [pdf]
.
slightly modified, April 2025
Does the department offer courses on current computing topics?
Yes, the department offers CS 85C and CS 185C.
Most CS 85C and CS 185C courses will count as CS electives.  Normally only one BSCS
elective may be satisfied in this way.
If you take CS 85C, you are still responsible for taking the right number of upper-division
units in math and CS courses.
modified, April 2020
Questions about courses in general
Can I make substitutions for courses in the BSCS program?
In some cases, yes, with approval from an advisor (subject to approval by the department's
undergraduate coordinator
).
For lower-division courses, many substitutions are accepted automatically based on
articulation with SJSU courses, many have been approved in advance by the CS department,
and many are approved after consultation with an advisor.
See the question on
SJSU Studies
for information about substitutions for CS 100W and Phil 134.  See the question on
Engineering courses
regarding courses taken from the SJSU College of Engineering.  See the question on
transferring upper-division courses
for information on other upper-division courses.  See the question on
credit by examination
for the current policy on this issue.
Graduate courses are never approved automatically for BSCS requirements, but they
are allowed under certain circumstances.
Substitutions based on extension courses or work experience are rarely approved.
somewhat modified, June 2016
Can I take a course without having taken the prerequisite courses?
This is really two questions:  (a) Can I take a course ..., and (b) Should I take
a course ...
In the vast majority of cases, the answer to (b) is "no". The department recognizes
that there are rare cases in which a student is prepared for a course without having
taken the official prerequisite courses. Thus the department allows instructors to
admit such students at their discretion. These courses can be recognized in the catalog
by a phrase like "or instructor consent" in the list of prerequisites. So the answer
to (a) is technically "yes, if you get the consent of the instructor".
modified, October 1995
When and how can I drop classes?  When and how can I add classes?
University policy S09-7 [pdf]
states that for a student to drop after the first two weeks, there must be serious
and compelling reasons.  In the last 20% of the semester, exceptions are granted only
if these serious and compelling reasons are beyond your control.
The policy also establishes a limit on the number of course units that can be dropped
between the drop deadline and the last 20% of the semester.  This limit is 18 units
for undergraduate students, 12 units for postbaccalaureate students, and 9 units for
graduate students. Units dropped based on the granting of an exception do not count
toward these limits.
More specific information about registration issues, including course adds and drops,
is available through the
Schedule of Classes
(start by following the Policies and Procedures and Registration links).
modified, June 2012
Is there a way of retaking a course to improve my grade?  If so, how does it work?
SJSU has a provision for "grade forgiveness", allowing undergraduate students to retake
an undergraduate course to improve their grade in the course. Constraints on the use
of
grade forgiveness
can be found in the university catalog.
A course may be repeated with grade forgiveness only once. As for any other repeated
course (that is not designated as "repeatable for credit"), the original grade must
have been less than a C. You need not petition for grade forgiveness -- it is automatic
for students and courses that meet the conditions above.  You will need to
petition not to use grade forgiveness
for a given course if you are eligible to use it for the course, but don't want grade
forgiveness. In particular, if you got a C- in a course but choose to re-enroll in
it to improve your understanding, the university will assume that you are seeking
grade forgiveness unless you petition otherwise.
You cannot use grade forgiveness for a class and also preregister for the class, since
you cannot preregister for a course that you have already taken.  By department policy,
instructors of computer science classes must give priority for adds to students who
are not repeating the course, except that graduating seniors have highest priority
for adds regardless of whether they have taken the course before.  Among students
wanting to repeat the course, CS instructors must not have a policy of giving lower
priority to students using grade forgiveness.
If you repeat a course and do not use grade forgiveness, both grades will be counted
in your GPA (assuming that the earlier grade was C- or below).
You may use grade forgiveness even if you have been disqualified from the university
(and are therefore not a registered SJSU student). In this case you will need to take
the course through
Open University
.
Repeating a course more than once requires
special approval from the registrar's office
, as well as the signature of the course instructor and of the department chair (or
associate dean).
There is also an "academic renewal" policy for disregarding work of previous semesters.
Petitions for academic renewal are available from the
Undergraduate Studies Office
.
modified,  April 2020
Can I use a graduate course to satisfy a BSCS requirement?
Current departmental policy is to allow this only if the student has at least a 3.0
GPA in upper division CS courses, and receives written approval of the instructor
and from the
undergraduate coordinator
prior to taking the course.
modified, September 2024
I think I already know the material in a particular course.  Can I get credit by examination?
The department currently allows credit by examination only for CS 46A, and only by
taking the Computer Science AP Exam, as required by the
new university policy for credit by examination [pdf]
.
modified, June 2016
Can I use courses taken in the College of Engineering to satisfy BSCS requirements?
In many cases, yes, but only if you took the course while you were an engineering
major.  For example, Engr 100W may be used to replace CS 100W if you took the former
course while an engineering major. However note that when it comes to SJSU Studies,
BSCS students may count Engr 100W toward Area Z only, and not toward Area R.
A number of other courses, from several different Engineering departments, may be
counted as equivalent to BSCS requirements or electives, by students who took these
courses while Computer Engineering majors. A list of
equivalent courses
is available online. Note that this list is subject to change from semester to semester.
If you took any of these courses while enrolled in another engineering major, they
are likely to be approved, but you will need to consult the
undergraduate coordinator
to be sure.
somewhat modified, June 2016
Does the department offer credit for extension courses taken elsewhere?  For work
experience?
Since extension courses vary so widely and offerings change so frequently, it is not
possible for us to evaluate the vast number of extension and online courses being
offered. Therefore, it is our policy not to accept extension courses as equivalent
to SJSU courses, unless the course is accepted in a university's CS degree program.
Similarly, we are not equipped to give academic credit for work experience, with the
exception of CS 190I (Internship Project).
modified, June 2014
Questions about certificates, programs, and resources
Does the department offer any certificate programs?
The department now offers a
Basic Certificate in Cyber Security Fundamentals
.  All of the courses in the certificate program may count toward the B.S. in Computer
Science.  There are several lower-division prerequisites for the courses in the program,
so it will be difficult to complete except for majors in Computer Science or a related
area.
An
Advanced Certificate in Cyber Security
is also available. This is a three-course program, two of which are graduate courses.
The certificate in Unix System Administration is no longer being offered.
modified, October 2015
What CS offerings are available in software engineering?
The Computer Science department now offers an undergraduate software project course
(CS 161) along with the longstanding undergraduate course in software engineering
(CS 160) and the graduate software project course (CS 240).
Several years ago, the CS department joined with the department of Computer Engineering
to create a
B.S. degree in Software Engineering
. The program is described in the university catalog. Other current information on
the program is available at
http://bsse.sjsu.edu/
.
A brief discussion of the differences between the computer science field and the software
engineering field is given in the
MSCS FAQ
.
According to the catalog descriptions of the CS and SE programs, the SE program has
17 more units beyond the level of support courses.  Most of this 17-unit difference
consists of hybrid GE/SE courses and 3 units are in math courses.  The rest is explained
by GE and physical education waivers granted to the SE program.  The CS program allows
considerably more electives than the SE program.
modified, April 2020
Are there internship or co-op programs for BSCS students?
Yes. The CS department has an
internship program
, and BSCS students are eligible for the math department's
Center for Applied Mathematics and Computer Science (CAMCOS)
. The
SJSU Career Center
also provides support for seeking and profiting from internship opportunities.
The department's program offers students the opportunity to earn academic credit (in
CS 190I -- Internship Project) for work done at corporate partners of the department.
Students must interview with and be chosen by the corporate partner.  For more information,
consult the CS 190I course instructor.
In a CAMCOS project, sponsors from industry and elsewhere present problems to a team
consisting of 4 to 8 students working under a faculty supervisor. Students receive
3 units of credit through enrollment in Math 203. Math 203 can in many cases be counted
toward the BSCS degree; check with the
undergraduate coordinator
for information about particular projects.  Information about the CAMCOS projects
available in particular semesters is publicized on the
CAMCOS web site
.
Many students in the department have obtained jobs in industry on their own, and attend
class part-time or at night. A check of this semester's schedule of classes (follow
the direct link from the CS department web site) will show that the department makes
an effort to schedule many courses, especially graduate and advanced undergraduate
courses, in the evening or early in the morning.
modified, April 2020
What computing devices will I need as a Computer Science major?
You will need a device with internet connectivity so that you can access the university's
wireless network.  The network is available in every classroom.  For account or password
information about the network, check the
SJSUOne web site
.
The department does have some equipment available for loan for emergencies (e.g.,
if your device breaks down).  The
library
also has some equipment available for loan.
Some software is available through the CS club, and
through the university
.
somewhat modified, June 2016
Are there jobs available through the CS department?
A very few jobs are available. Check with the department office or see the question
on financial assistance in the
FAQ for the MS program
. Keep in mind that this discussion refers to aid available through the department,
rather than through the university.  Also, teaching associate positions are unlikely
to be offered to undergraduates.
somewhat modified, August 2015
Is there any software that is available at special rates to CS students?
The
CS Club web site
often has links to such software, and to other resources as well.
slightly modified, April 2020
Questions about rules and requirements
What is an advising hold? What is a probation hold?  Why do I have one? How can I
get it removed?
An advising hold is a mechanism by which students are prevented from registering for
classes until they have seen an advisor.  For every semester's registration, advising
holds are now placed on all Computer Science majors, graduate and undergraduate students
alike.  Probation holds are registration holds for students on academic probation.
To remove either kind of hold, see the
advisor
given by the instructions at the CS department web site. It is important to remove
advising holds before the end of each semester, since you cannot count on your advisor
being on campus between semesters.
To the meeting with your advisor to remove an advising hold, you should bring a signed
course equivalency form if you have one, and a filled-out advising release form. Advising
release forms may be obtained through the CS department office in MH 208, or from
the department's web site.
slightly modified, April 2015
Haven't the BSCS requirements changed recently? Which requirements should I use? How
can I find the most up-to-date statement of the requirements?
Deciding which requirements to use
Within limits, you can determine which requirements to use.  You have "catalog rights"
in your choice, meaning that you may continue to use a set of requirements even if
the requirements change, again within limits.  The limits are that
1. you can always use the newest requirements, and
2. you can use any set of older requirements (from the last 10 years) as long as you
have maintained continuous attendance between a time when they were in effect and
the time when you graduate, and
3. you cannot mix old and new requirements.
The university is now maintaining the choice of
catalog rights
of each student, in part to make the Degree Audits on MySJSU more accurate.
The official definition of
continuous attendance
(sometimes called "continuous enrollment") is given in the university catalog. For
most students, maintaining continuous attendance means being enrolled for one semester
(or two quarters) in each CALENDAR year.
The conditions determining whether students need to reapply for admission after an
absence from SJSU are not the same as for continuous attendance. You may need to reapply
even though you have maintained continuous attendance.
Statements of the requirements
Since changes to degree requirements (as opposed to changes in course offerings and
prerequisites) may change only for fall semesters, the university catalog will contain
the most recent set of major requirements.  Some information on other changes may
be available from MySJSU and from the department's website (including these FAQs).
Announcements regarding experimental courses or "topics courses" (e.g., CS 85C or
CS 185C) cannot be made in the catalog. Check the department's bulletin boards and
web site for information on these courses.
Relying on friends for information on official department policies has gotten students
into trouble in the past.  The safest thing to do is to check with your
advisor
.
somewhat modified, April 2025
May I count a newly created elective? Must I follow a newly imposed prerequisite?
The answer to the first question is yes, subject to any explicit restrictions placed
on doing so.
In every case, the use of electives is subject to the distributional constraint on
electives, and the constraint on upper-division units in Math and CS courses.
New prerequisites, on the other hand, need to go into effect uniformly for all students,
no matter when they entered the major.
modified, September 2024
Who should I see if I am having trouble with department or university rules and regulations?
Who should I see for other types of assistance?
For assistance with Computer Science issues
For most CS issues, you should start with the appropriate advisor, as given on the
CS
advising page
.
For more complicated CS issues, or if you have problems with your graduation, you
may consult the
undergraduate coordinator
. The undergraduate coordinator has the authority to approve modifications to the
major requirements in special cases, and to make rulings on curriculum-related matters
in cases where the rules are unclear. If you have problems with your graduation, you
should see the undergraduate coordinator.  On rare occasions you may need to consult
the department chair or the graduate coordinator
. Appointments may be made with the department chair through the CS department office
in MH 208.
For other assistance
In some cases, it is possible to petition the university for waiver of university
rules. In some cases it is not.  The web sites of the the
office of the registrar
and the
Undergraduate Education Office
provide petition forms for many of the most common cases.
Many university facilities also stand ready to assist you, including the following:
the College of Science Student Success Center
,
Peer Connections (for tutoring)
,
the SJSU Writing Center (for assistance with writing)
SJSU Counseling and Psychological Services (for counseling from professionals)
How do I apply for graduation?
To apply for graduation, you must follow the steps outlined on
the Office of the Registrar website.
modified, October 2024
When do I apply for graduation?
This question is answered in the registrar's graduation
Application Central
page. The importance of priority registration and graduating senior status is discussed
below, in the answer to What is a graduating senior?
The
registrar's graduation page
is a good reference for other questions about graduation.
modified, January 2018
What is a graduating senior?
By
university policy [pdf]
, graduating seniors are to be given priority in registration for courses that they
need to take in order to graduate on time. In particular, they are to be given priority
over other students for adding courses. In recent semesters, the registrar's office
has been providing special cards to graduating seniors that they may use to identify
themselves to instructors.
Graduating senior status is available to students in the semester before their final
semester, if they turn in their graduation application early enough. So you should
apply for graduation early to ensure that you can qualify for two semesters of priority
registration as a graduating senior.
If you miss a university deadline for filing for priority registration and getting
a graduating senior card, you should still file as early as you can. You may be able
to get the card as early as you had hoped, even though there's no guarantee.
modified, April 2020
What are the requirements for graduation with honors?
The requirements for graduation with honors are described in the
CS department's section of the university catalog
. These are departmental honors, as distinct from university honors at graduation.
The
Humanities Honors Program in General Education
is not related to graduation with honors.
slightly modified, June 2012
Is it difficult for CS majors to get a minor in another field?
With one exception, minors for CS majors require considerable extra coursework, since
the BS program in CS has little or no room for free electives. This exception is the
mathematics minor
. The math minor requires 18 units, including Calculus 1, Calculus 2, and 9 upper-division
units in mathematics courses.
CS majors automatically satisfy the Calculus 1 and Calculus 2 requirement, and have
9 qualifying lower-division units (from calculus and discrete math). Qualifying upper-division
courses are Math 129A, Math 161A, and any of several math courses listed as BSCS electives
in the
BSCS requirements
(including the crosslisted courses 143C and 143M in numerical analysis and scientific
computing). Any of these may count toward the BSCS.
The university regulation that minors require 12 units distinct from the major is
also satisfied, if you take Math 129A (as opposed to a lower-division linear algebra
course).  This is because courses in support of the major (like Math 30, 31, 42, and
129A) do not count as major requirements for the purpose of determining 12 distinct
units).
So it's possible to get a math minor without taking any extra courses at all, if you
choose your major courses carefully. In any case, the cost of a math minor is a small
number of additional courses.
Do be aware, when deciding which electives to take, that there is a constraint on
electives used for the BSCS. None of the math courses that count as BSCS electives
appear in this list.
Also be aware that adding and changing minors are no longer automatically allowed.
modified, April 2020
Last Updated Sep 3, 2026