Academic Advising - College of Social Sciences | College of Social Sciences Student Success Center
Skip to main content
Academic Advising
GE Advisors are available to assist incoming Fall 2026 and continuing (matriculated)
students with GE Planning/Scheduling, American Institutions, PE, transfer credit (after
it has been posted), unit counts, and university policies & procedures.
FALL 2026 ADVISING SCHEDULE
APPOINTMENTS:
In-Person & virtual appointments for current students can be made via
Spartan Connect
.
DROP-INS:
Drop-ins will be unavailable until further notice.
For questions, please contact us at (408) 924-5363 or email: socsci-success@sjsu.edu.
Scheduling Help and Tips
How to Schedule an appointment on Spartan Connect (step by step)
Quick Start: Student Self-Service Appointments
Preparing for your Advising Appointment
Our Advisors are here to help you throughout your academic journey. Remember these
things in preparing for your advising appointment:
Connect with your Advisor Early On
Reach out to your Advisor soon after you begin at SJSU. You will be working closely
with your Advisor, so we encourage you to put in the effort to build a strong working
relationship. Make sure you walk away with a clear understanding of when and how often
to meet, and the topics you will discuss.
Have Your Advising Documents Available
Transcripts (if you took classes from community college or another 4-year institution).
AP/IB/CLEP Scores.
Prior documentation, and who you contacted previously (if necessary).
Additional documents you think might be important or relevant.
Research Policies and Procedures
Research the SJSU catalog so you have a good understanding of our policies and procedures.
If you still have questions, come to your advising appointment prepared with a list
of questions. If you need assistance with campus resources, our Advisors can refer
you to the appropriate departments.
FAQ's
How are GE appointments held?
Appointments are held in-person and virtually via Zoom.
Where do I go for in-person Advising?
In-Person advising is located in Clark Hall 240.
I'm not able to make it to my appointment. What do I do?
Email your Advisor directly. You can find your Advisor's name on the confirmation
email you received when your appointment was made. If you're unable to find it, please
email us at socsci-success@sjsu.edu.
What information should I have ready?
Make sure to have access to a copy of any and all advising documents that might be
relevant to your appointment. Digital copies are fine, as long as they're current.
I might be a few minutes late. How much time do I have until my appointment is cancelled
due to being late?
You'll be given until 10 minutes after the start of your appointment (whether in-person
or via Zoom) to arrive to our office (or log in virtually). If you have not arrived
or logged in starting the 11th minute, you'll be marked as a no-show and will need
to reschedule.
I'm having problems scheduling an appointment. What do I do?
If you are a current, matriculated student, please call our front desk at (408) 924-5363
(Mon-Fri 9a-12p; or 1p-5p) for assistance.
I will be admitted to SJSU in the next term and would like advising before Orientation.
Our GE Advisors provide advising services for current students only. You will receive
course planning assistance during your Orientation. For Fall 2026 admits, you will
be able to schedule an appointment with an Advisor via
Spartan Connect
beginning August 19, 2026.
I am a Former Student who left in good standing or on academic probation. What steps
do I take to return to SJSU?
Please navigate to the
Former Students Returning
page for further information.
I was disqualified from SJSU. Can I meet with an Advisor?
At this time, we are not accepting appointments for former or disqualified students.
Please refer to our Disqualification and Reinstatement page for further information.
Department Major Advisors
A Department Major Advisor is available if you have questions related specifically
to your major, such courses within your major, internships, or other related questions
regarding specific major programs.
Each college has major advisors in their own departments that advise specific programs.
You can find more information about who to reach and how to reach them on our
Department Advising page
.
Last Updated Aug 17, 2026