Major & General Education (GE) Advising | College of Science Student Success Center
Skip to main content
Major & General Education (GE) Advising
All College of Science students are required to complete advising before registering
for courses each term. A College of Science Advising enrollment hold is placed on
students accounts each semester and will be removed when required advising is completed.
Our advising will be limited if your
transfer credit report
is not complete and accurate. If you are completing a course during the summer, you
are required to send official transcripts with final grades to SJSU for approval,
processing, and posting.
Lower Division students (0 to 59 earned units):
.
In-person appointments are held in the Science Building (SCI) 127.
Virtual appointments are hosted on Zoom.
Lower Division students have been added
CoS-SSC Lower Division Advising Canvas
course. Turn on notifications to receive advising announcements, connect to SJSU
resources, and engage with SJSU's opportunities for STEM students.
Upper Division students (60 or more earned units):
On August 26, 2026, an email with the subject "[...] Schedule an Academic Advising
appointment" was sent to Upper Division Upper Division students containing instructions for scheduling a 30-minute Academic/Schedule Planning appointment
with an Upper Division Academic Advisor this fall semester. Students will only have
access to schedule one appointment, regardless of the
advising topic
, for the next eight weeks.
Each student has been granted access to a unique Spartan Connect scheduling link shared
in the "[...] Schedule an Academic Advising appointment" email that cannot be shared
with anyone else to schedule an appointment.
If a student cannot locate this email, a yellow banner can be found in their
Spartan Connect profile homepage
that will lead the student to their scheduling link when ready to schedule an appointment.
Our team has limited availability and cannot accommodate additional requests for appointments
at this time. An additional option for advising this fall is to attend drop-in advising.
You can review topics for drop-in advising and the schedule on our website.
In-person appointments are held in the Science Building (SCI) 127.
Virtual appointments are hosted on Zoom.
Upper Division students have been added to the
College of Science Student Success Center Upper Division Advising Canvas course
. Turn on notifications to receive advising announcements, connect to SJSU resources,
and engage with SJSU's opportunities for STEM students.
Last Updated Sep 11, 2026