Frequently Asked Questions | Undergraduate Education
Skip to main content
Frequently Asked Questions
Quick Links:
How many total units do I need to earn a bachelor’s degree?
You need at
least 120 earned units
to graduate with a bachelor’s degree.
How many units can I transfer from a community college?
A maximum of 70 units from a community college can count toward the 120-unit requirement.
At least 50 units must come from a 4-year college or university, or from AP, CLEP,
or IB exam credit.
How many upper-division units are required?
You must complete at
least 40 upper-division units [pdf]
total.
Bachelor of Arts (BA): At least 12 upper-division units
Bachelor of Science (BS): At least 18 upper-division units
What does the residency requirement mean?
You must complete at
least 30 units
at SJSU.
Within those 30 units:
24 units must be upper division
12 units must be in your major
9 units must be upper-division General Education (GE)
Only upper-division GE (Areas B, C, D) taken at SJSU (or another CSU) can count toward
the
9 upper-division GE units
.
AP, CLEP, and IB credit do not count toward the residency requirement.
What GPA do I need to graduate?
You must have a minimum 2.0 GPA in all of the following:
SJSU cumulative GPA
All college GPA
Major GPA
Is there a limit to how many units I can use for Grade Forgiveness?
Yes. You can use Grade Forgiveness for up to 16 units total. Any repeated courses
beyond that will not replace your original grade.
Do COVID-19 policy exceptions still apply?
Some requirements were temporarily suspended during Fall 2020 through Spring 2021
due to COVID-19. These exceptions do not apply outside of those terms.
How many upper-division units do I need for a minor at SJSU?
You must complete at least 6 upper-division units for a minor at SJSU.
What is the grading scale used for GPA calculations?
Grades are calculated on a 0.0 to 4.0 scale. No grade can be lower than 0.0 or higher
than 4.0.
Transfer Credit
Can a lower-division course count for upper-division GE credit?
No. Upper-division GE credit must come from upper-division courses.
The course I took was articulated to a course at SJSU that is a GE, but I did not
receive GE credit for it. Why was I not given GE credit?
Course-to-course articulation does not always meet GE articulation. Course equivalencies
apply to major course requirements only. Students will need to file a
petition
to request for GE equivalency.
If a course I have taken at an out-of-state college or university is not articulated,
how can I get it accepted for a particular GE area at SJSU?
Matriculated undergraduate students who have taken a non-articulated course that may
satisfy requirements of a particular General Education or American Institutions area,
will need file a
petition
with Undergraduate Education for review and acceptance of the course for a GE area.
Can I take courses at a community college or another university while attending SJSU?
Yes. Students may take courses outside of SJSU. After completing the courses, students
must submit an official transcript to SJSU to have the credits transferred.
If I fail a course at SJSU, can I retake an equivalent course at a community college?
Yes, you may retake a failed course at a community college. However, the grade will
not replace your SJSU grade.
Grade forgiveness
only applies to courses repeated at SJSU.
General Education Related Questions
I want to register for SJSU Studies and/or 100W courses, but MySJSU says I don’t meet
the requirements. How can I register for these courses?
Students who have been matriculated at SJSU for at least one semester, who have fewer
than 60 units earned at the time of registration, and would like to register for SJSU
Studies and 100W courses that require upper division standing, will need to file a
petition. Students must complete the
Enroll in SJSU Studies and 100W with Less than 60 Units Petition
. If approved, students are eligible to enroll on the first day of instruction with
an add code.
What are SJSU Studies courses?
SJSU Studies are the upper division GE areas: UD 2/5 (R), UD 3 (V), and UD 4 (S).
Students must have earned at least 60 units in order to take the upper division GE
courses.
Can I waive the 100W course (formerly Z)?
The GWAR requirement may be satisfied (not waived) at another CSU campus or by approval
of a
Writing in the Discipline (100W) Petition
. The 100W course can be waived if a student scored an 11 or 12 on their Writing Skills
Test (WST) and if the student's major permits a waiver.
Please note: WST exam is no longer offered at SJSU.
Can I substitute Area 6 (formerly F)?
No, waivers or substitutions allowed for Area 6 (F) courses (per
CSU General Education Breadth Requirements
).  Courses need to be passed with a "C- or better" at SJSU.
Students who took Area 6 (F) outside of SJSU and received a grade below a "C-" can
petitioned to use the grade by emailing
undergraduate-education@sjsu.edu
.
Do all college courses automatically count for GE credit?
No. Courses must be officially certified for GE and match SJSU’s GE area requirements.
Courses from SJSU, another CSU, or a California Community College
may not count if
they are:
Not GE-certified, or
Certified in a different GE area than SJSU’s
Graduation Requirements and General Related Questions
Can I get requirements waived because I’m a graduating senior?
No. Graduating senior status alone is not a valid reason to waive academic or graduation
requirements.
My request to change and/or add a major and/or minor was denied, what can I do?
Students can submit a petition to appeal such decisions under
Presidential Directive 2009-05 [pdf]
. Please see the
Appeal a Presidential Directive 2009-05 Decision Petition
for more information.
I walked in the ceremony. Does that mean I graduated?
Not necessarily. Participating in the ceremony
does not
mean you have completed all degree requirements. You officially graduate only when
your degree is posted to your student record.
Please
visit the Registrar's website
for more information.
How will I be notified if I have officially graduated?
Students may check if their degree has been awarded by logging onto MySJSU to
view their unofficial transcript
. If your degree has been awarded, it will say "Requirements completed for Degree
of BS/BA/BFA/BM".
Official proof of graduation is the student's official transcript stating that the
degree has been conferred, which can be requested as soon as the degree is posted
on the unofficial transcript.
Can undergraduate students apply for graduation while in Open University (OU) status?
Yes, but it is not recommended. Students may apply for graduation and finish degree
requirements through Open University if they are in Good Standing or on Academic Notice.
In some cases, students who have already completed all degree requirements may submit
a graduation application as a matriculated student (check with the Registrar’s Office).
However, students are not eligible to apply for graduation through Open University
if they:
Need to take supervised courses (OU students cannot enroll in these)
Have a major, SJSU, or overall GPA below 2.0
Are in Disqualified academic standing (reinstatement is required first)
Have
never
been matriculated at SJSU (must be formally admitted and attend at least one semester
as a matriculated student)
Are not ready to graduate (reapplying for admission is recommended)
If you’re unsure whether Open University is right for your situation, it’s best to
check with the Registrar’s Office or an academic advisor.
I have earned more than 24 Open University (OU) units, what can I do to have them
count towards my degree requirements?
CSU rules allow a maximum of 24 OU units to count toward the minimum 120 units needed
for a baccalaureate degree without the need for a petition.
Students will need to submit the
Open University Coursework to Satisfy Graduation Requirements Petition
to have excess units (over 24) be counted towards a baccalaureate degree. There is
no limit on the number of OU units that can be approved via the petition. If all other
requirements for graduation have been met, the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education
or the University Registrar can approve excess units needed to satisfy residency, baccalaureate requirements, or upper division
credits.
Can I apply grade forgiveness to a second attempt if the course was taken outside
of SJSU?
No, Grade Forgiveness only applies to courses for which both attempts were taken at
SJSU. For more information, please visit the Grade Forgiveness page in the
SJSU catalog
.
Does grade forgiveness apply to CSU Fully Online?
Yes, if the course is articulated with (equivalent to) our SJSU course, it will be
given grade forgiveness; otherwise, the grades will be averaged. For more information,
please see
CSU Fully Online.
What is California Promise?
California Promise is a program to help freshmen graduate in four years and transfers
graduate in two years. For more information, please visit the
California Promise webpage
.
Can I return to Earlier GE Pattern?
Yes, if core GE requirements were completed before breaking continuous enrollment,
you can petition to return to the earlier GE pattern. It's best to do this when you
apply for graduation.
GE Pattern Fall 2021-Spring 2025
, catalog term of when GE was completed will be used,
GE pattern Fall 2019-Spring 2021
, Fall 2020 term is used,
GE Pattern Fall 2018-Spring 2019
- catalog term of when GE was completed will be used,
GE Pattern Spring 2018 & Earlier
- catalog term of when GE was completed will be used.
If you have been continuously enrolled from a community college, you can also ask
your advisor to update your University Requirements catalog rights via
Advisor Request (ARS).
Can a department require a grade higher than a “C” to meet graduation requirements?
No. Departments cannot require a grade higher than a “C” for university or graduation
requirements.
Reinstatement and Readmissions to SJSU Related Questions
Do I have to reapply to SJSU after I have been disqualified?
The answer depends on your circumstances:
A) If you are planning to return to SJSU as a regularly enrolled student, the answer
is yes. Students will need to submit an application for admission through
Cal State Apply
after their disqualification has been cleared. Detailed information and links to
the relevant petition can be found on the
Registrar's Reinstatement web page
.
B) If all requirements for graduation have been completed, it's not necessary to reapply
for admissions to SJSU. However, if you have been disqualified, you must be reinstated
in Good Standing prior to submitting your application for graduation.
C) If you are not planning to complete a degree at SJSU, students are not required
to reapply for admissions.
Do I need to complete a Reinstatement Petition even though I was not disqualified
from SJSU?
Students who "stopped-out/stopped attending for more than two consecutive semester"
(on academic notice or good standing) at SJSU and wishing to be matriculated back
to SJSU, and are otherwise eligible for admissions as an upper division student, need
to apply for admissions through
Cal State Apply
.
Reinstatement petitions are only for those students that were disqualified from SJSU.
Do I need to be reinstated to the major that I was disqualified from?
Students who are eligible for reinstatement should petition for their
intended major
, which may or may not be the major when they were disqualified from SJSU. Students
do not
have to be reinstated back to their original major unless it remains their intended
major. Reinstatement petitions require signatures and recommendations from the major
department, and the College Associate Dean of the intended major. The Associate Dean
of Undergraduate Education signature is only required when then the student's GPA
is below a 2.0 or the student selected one of the categories that require their signature.
What should I do if my reinstatement was denied (not recommended) by the major department?
Departments and/or colleges may have their own criteria for Academic Notice and Disqualification
for their majors (though many do not). Many departments will give a student a "To-Do
List" to complete, with specific steps that a student needs to take in order to be
(re)accepted into the original major or a new intended major.
We encourage these students to contact us at undergraduate-education@sjsu.edu
I completed my Reinstatement petition and will be applying for admissions, is there
any other form I need to complete?
No other form is required to be completed.
When do I need to reapply for admissions to SJSU?
Students need to reapply for admissions to SJSU if they stopped attending SJSU for
two or more consecutive semesters or following an approved reinstatement (after disqualification).
Please note that SJSU is currently not accepting lower division transfer students
and upper-division students as Undeclared. Reinstated students need to complete a
minimum of 60 semester units (90 quarter units) before they can re-apply for admissions.
Please
visit the SJSU Admissions website
for more information.
My Reinstatement form was approved. I have over 60 units, but have not completed my
basic four skills requirement. Am I eligible to apply for admissions?
In order to be eligible for readmission after a two or more consecutive semester "stopped-out"
or being disqualified, students must:
have an all college GPA that is 2.0 or better; and
have earned 60 or more semester units (90 quarter units); and
satisfied the
four basic skill courses with grades of "C-"
or better in each.
What grade point average (GPA) determines my Academic Standing at  SJSU?
SJSU cumulative GPA (SJSU CUM GPA) determines Academic Standing (e.g., Good Standing,
Academic Notice (formerly Probation), or Disqualification status). All College GPA
determines admissions and/or (re)admissions to SJSU.
Graduation Writing Assessment Requirement (GWAR) Requirement
Do I have to take the Writing Skills Test (WST)?
Writing Skills Test (WST) is no longer required.
For first baccalaureate students at SJSU, successful completion of the GWAR means:
passing a 100W course with a  grade of "C or better".
Students are encourage to take the
Online WST Directed Self-Placement (WST-DSP)
Last Updated Apr 8, 2026