International Steps to Admission | Admissions
Skip to main content
International Steps to Admission
For purposes of admission to SJSU, please apply to the following category based on
your current citizenship or visa status:
International Application
F1 Visa
Applying from home country or,
Already in the U.S. on F1 Visa (e.g. transfer or change of level) or,
B Visa holders who will need to change their status to F1
J1 Visa seeking
U.S. citizens, permanent residents, refugees, H4, H1, F2, and all other visa holders
should use the
Domestic Steps to Admission
.
Note: If you are currently on an H4 or F2 visa and want to convert to an F1 student
visa, apply as a
Domestic applicant
. If admitted, you will need to work with the
International Student & Scholar Services (ISSS) Office
to apply for a change of status.
Select each step below and discover the required actions to complete your university
application.
Step 1: Meet All Requirements
Review eligibility requirements
for graduate admission at SJSU. Investigate your intended
degree program
to verify if they require a separate department application,
graduate tests
, a
supplemental statement of purpose
, or other specific department requirements.
The
Steps to Graduate Admission publication [pdf]
includes step-by-step instructions for completing the graduate admission process.
Step 2: Meet All Deadlines
Review our
deadlines
to know when you have to submit your
Cal State Apply application
and document requirements.
It is important to take special note of the document deadline in order to ensure timely
submission of required documents. Deadlines are fixed and applications not complete
by the deadline may not be considered for an admission decision.
International deadlines can be significantly earlier than for domestic deadlines.
We determine our deadlines to ensure international students have sufficient time to
arrange logistics involved in pursuing graduate studies at SJSU, including going through
the visa process. Please plan accordingly when applying to SJSU and plan to apply
early so that all application materials can be submitted before the deadline.
See
Document Submission Requirements by Applicant Type [pdf]
to help you prepare your documents in advance of your application.
Step 3: Apply Online
Submit an online application through
Cal State Apply
for desired term and program to San José State University. This step must be completed
regardless of any extra steps required by your specific graduate program. You may
only apply to one degree program per admission term. NOTE: Admission term can be selected
on the
Cal State Apply
landing page.
For a step-by-step guide on how to complete the Cal State Apply application for SJSU,
visit our
Cal State Apply video tutorials
.
Note: An application fee is due at the time you submit your
Cal State Apply application
. This fee is non-refundable, even if your application is withdrawn or denied and
only used for the applied term. Fee waivers are not available at this time.
In order to successfully obtain an F-1 visa, you will need to correctly designate
yourself as an international applicant planning to study on an F-1 or J-1 visa at
the beginning of your Cal State Apply application during the “Complete Your Profile”
section.
Select 'Yes' for the question: Do you have or will you require an F-1 (student) or
J-1 visa (exchange) to study the California State University (CSU)?
If you mistakenly apply as a domestic applicant and intend to study on an international
student visa for a program that is NOT currently offered to international students,
your application will be withdrawn.
NOTE: Submit your Cal State Apply application per your legal name as indicated on
your passport. Discrepancies in the spelling or order of your name will result in
delays in processing your application.
Step 4: Submit Required International Evaluation to SJSU
GAPE requires that all applicants with international coursework provide a
Evaluation for any coursework completed outside of the U.S., U.S. Territories & Canada.
NOTE: All international degrees must be evaluated by one evaluation service. Send your bachelor's degree and your master's degree to the same evaluation service.
Mark sheets/transcripts/degree certificates must be sent directly to WES, ACEI, ECE,
or TEC for evaluation. SJSU must receive the academic record and the evaluation directly
from the evaluation service.
NOTE: If you have a master’s or doctoral degree from the U.S. and a bachelor’s degree
from another country, we still require a WES, ACEI, ECE, or TEC evaluation of the
bachelor’s degree.
Submit your documents to WES, ACEI, ECE, or TEC for evaluation early in your application
process. It is the applicant’s responsibility to make sure the evaluation service
has all required documentation with enough time to electronically transmit your evaluation
to SJSU
by your document deadline.
Evaluation Submission Notes:
• View
illustrated instructions on how to send documents through WES [pdf]
.
• SJSU will accept the WES document-by-document or course-by-course evaluation (Basic
or ICAP).
• SJSU will accept the ACEI basic (general) report or the comprehensive (course-by-course)
report.
• SJSU will accept the ECE general report, the general report with GPA, or the course-by-course
report.
• SJSU will accept the TEC general analysis, general analysis with approximate GPA,
and course by course analysis report.
• The course-by-course reports offered by these evaluation services are for applicants
applying to multiple schools that require international credential evaluations. You
can decide which service you prefer.
• We will receive the completed evaluation directly from WES, ACEI, ECE, or TEC electronically.
Documents sent by applicants to SJSU will not be accommodated.
• 7th semester marksheets are required for applicants with a degree in progress.
SJSU Assessment:
• SJSU evaluators determine degree equivalency and extract an equivalent GPA from
the university transcripts.
SJSU does not use the degree equivalency or GPA calculations provided by the evaluation
service.
• Applications will be referred or denied in accordance with CSU eligibility standards
currently in practice.
7th Semester WES, ACEI, ECE, or TEC Evaluations:
• Applicants admitted with only 7 semesters of evaluated work will be required to
submit final semester mark sheets/transcripts and their degree certificate to the
evaluation service for an updated evaluation.
• The final, updated evaluation must be sent to SJSU by the deadline posted in the
applicant’s MySJSU account.
• Failure to comply with these requirements will result in a “document hold” that
will prevent future class registration. Document holds are removed when documents
are received and verified as meeting all requirements.
3-Year Bachelor Degrees
:
• SJSU does not deem many 3-year bachelor’s degree as comparable to a 4-year U.S.
bachelor’s degree.
• For applicants with 3-year bachelor’s degrees to be eligible to pursue graduate
studies at SJSU we suggest applying to SJSU as an upper division transfer student
to complete a bachelor’s degree from SJSU.
Bologna Degrees:
•
Bologna degrees
are accepted by SJSU and will require a proper WES, ACEI, ECE, or TEC international
evaluation.
Step 5: Submit U.S./Canada Transcripts
If you earned a degree or completed coursework in the U.S. or Canada, official transcripts
are required and must be sent to Graduate Admissions.
If your university offers official electronic transcripts, we will accept this method
of delivery. If your university requires an email address to send an official, electronic
transcript, the recipient address is:
etranscript@sjsu.edu
.
Transcripts sent by
mail
should be sent to:
All mailed transcripts must be sealed and unopened to be accepted as official documents.
SJSU students do not have to submit SJSU transcripts with your application.
NOTE: Your department may also request transcripts to be sent directly to their office.
Check with the department for the departmental address and preferred method of submission.
Re-applying to SJSU
Official transcripts are held for one year only. You can check your "To Do List" at
MySJSU to confirm any outstanding documents needed after you apply.
Step 6: Demonstrate English Language Proficiency
There are two ways to meet the English Language Proficiency requirement:
1. Submit the TOEFL (iBT, PBT), Academic IELTS, IELTS Indicator, Academic PTE, or
Duolingo English Test showing the minimum score required for the university and your
major. Minimum score requirements can be found on our
Graduate Test Requirements
page.
OR
2. Submit official transcripts or an official credential evaluation (i.e. WES) that
prove one of the criteria below:
• Studied full-time at a U.S. college or university for at least three years (completed
72 semester/108 quarter academic units at an institutionally accredited college or
university within the U.S.)
• Completed three years of full-time study at a high school in the U.S.
• Completed (or in progress of being completed) Bachelor's or Master's degree from
an institutionally accredited college or university within the U.S. or from one of
the following countries/territories outside of the U.S.
Australia
Bermuda
Botswana
Commonwealth Caribbean (Antigua and Barbuda, Belize, Barbados, Dominica, Grenada,
Guyana, Jamaica, The Bahamas, Trinidad and Tobago)
United Kingdom (England, Ireland, Scotland, and Wales)
U.S. Territories (Puerto Rico, Guam, Virgin Islands, Northern Mariana Islands, and
American Samoa)
Zambia
Additional English Language Prociency Notes:
• Countries not listed above will not meet the English Language Proficiency Requirement.
• U.S. based work experience will not meet the English Language Proficiency Requirement.
Note: SJSU does not accept “English-medium of instruction” as a substitute for an
English-language proficiency exam such as TOEFL, IELTS, or the Pearson’s Test of English.
Letters from applicants or institutions will NOT be accepted.
Step 7: Submit Test Scores
University Required English Language Proficiency
Submit official TOEFL (iBT), Academic IELTS, Academic PTE, or Duolingo English Test
Scores if you do not meet the requirements above.
Required Department Test Scores
Review our
Test Requirements
page to see if your program of interest requires the GRE or GMAT.
.
Academic IELTS
: Submit Official IELTS
electronically to Cal State Apply
directly from IELTS. [Note: Institutional Name is
to send your official PTE score report to SJSU.
Duolingo Test Score
: Access your
Duolingo account
to send your official Duolingo Scores to San Jose State University - Graduate Admissions
& Program Evaluations.
NOTE: English Language Proficiency Test scores must be less than two years old and
GRE Test scores must be less than five years and sent directly from the testing agency
to San José State University.
Step 08: Submit Copy of Current Passport
Use your legal name as it appears in your passport when applying to SJSU. If offered
admission, your I-20 will be issued to the name entered on your SJSU application.
When securing your F-1 visa, you must show the consular officer your I-20 and discrepancies
in your I-20 and passport may result in challenges obtaining a visa.
Upload a copy of your current passport in the
correct pdf format [pdf]
to the
SJSU Admissions Document Upload
. Your passport must be valid for at least one year from the date of upload.
Step 09: Submit Copy of Current Visa (if applicable)
All international applicants who currently reside in the U.S. on a visa must upload
a copy of their current visa in the
correct pdf format [pdf]
to the
SJSU Admissions Document Upload
. The visa copy must be received by the
posted document deadline
.
Applicants should submit a copy of your F1 visa approval for the currently enrolled
issuing institution or the I-20. If you are currently on OPT, please submit a copy
of your OPT or STEM OPT EAD card.
Note: All students must show documentation of their current visa status at the time
of application. This is the status at the time of the application and will assist
in issuing the correct paperwork if offered admission.
Step 10: Submit Declaration of Finance Form
All international applicants MUST submit a completed, signed, and dated SJSU
Declaration of Finance form [pdf]
by the posted document deadline. Refer to the
Required Financial Documents for International Students
for more information, including the tuition and cost of living estimates for each
program.
Students must use the SJSU Declaration of Finance form; no other forms will be accepted.
This form is required in order to process your application and must accurately reflect
the information included in the Bank Letter or Bank Statement.
Please upload your completed SJSU Declaration of Finance form in pdf format to the
SJSU Admissions Document Upload
.
Step 11: Submit Bank Letter or Bank Statement
In addition to the Declaration of Finance, all international applicants MUST submit
financial support documents (bank letter or bank statement) by the posted document
deadline that meets requirements.
Federal immigration regulations require that all international students provide evidence
of adequate funds to meet the financial obligations of enrollment at a U.S. university.
The minimum amount is non-negotiable, and documents that lack sufficient funds will
be rejected by SJSU.
Bank documents are required in order to process your application. Please carefully
review the Declaration of Finance form for additional details on acceptable and unacceptable
types of documents.
Upload your bank letter or statement in pdf format to the
SJSU Admissions Document Upload
.
• The
College of Business
and Special Session programs may have different amounts. Please check program websites
for fee information.
Bank Letter/State Requirement Checklist:
• Combined US dollar amount from you and your sponsor(s) meets minimum amount listed
on Declaration of Finance form.
• Add $5000 for each dependent to minimum amount.
• Shows the type of account for each account. Bonds, stocks, and investment funds
are not acceptable.
• The name(s) on the bank letter/statement must match the sponsor name(s) listed on
the Declaration of Finance form.
• On official letterhead and signed by bank official.
• Fixed/term/time deposits MUST state "able to withdraw at any time without penalty".
• Issued and dated within the previous six months.
• Must submit a new bank letter if applying for a different term.
Still have questions about how to apply?
Join us on Friday, September 18 for an International Student Information Session from
8:30 PM - 9:30 PM Pacific Time
Learn the basics and highlights about SJSU, tips about the application process, and
programs offered at SJSU. Our degrees put you on the path to a successful global career.
This is a general information session for both Undergraduate and Graduate Students.
Register Now:
Get to Know SJSU: Cutting-Edge Academics and How to Apply
Last Updated Sep 10, 2026