Transfer Credit FAQ | Engineering Student Success Center
Skip to main content
Transfer Credit FAQ
Generally, meet with an Engineering Student Success advisor to have your GE courses
and
transfer credit summary
audited. They can clear any errors (credits that did not transfer when they should
have, for example) that the automated system in the Evaluation's office didn't catch.
Please read our list of frequently asked questions below.
FAQs
How do I transfer my course credits from another college?
Order transcripts from the institution from which you took courses. For most institutions,
you will need to login to your student portal and request your transcript there.
Have them electronically sent to SJSU (recommended) or mailed to you, so you can hand
deliver them to the Registrar's office, which is located under the North Garage. (Use
the Dropbox by the Student Services Center entrance.)
You will be emailed confirmation that they have
received
your transcripts and will need time to process and post your grades.
Check the status of your transcripts in your
Transfer Credit summary
in MySJSU.
Email
eval@sjsu.edu
if your transcripts have been received but not yet posted.
How do I make sure the courses I plan on taking will transfer (articulate) with SJSU?
Generally, all information can be found in
Assist.org
.
Additionally, SJSU has its own
articulation
page which includes options to view only
GE courses
or major courses (
course-to-course list
).
When should I transfer my credits?
As soon as possible.
If the transfer course is a prerequisite, you will need it posted in your records
before you can register for the proceeding course during Advanced Enrollment. Otherwise,
you will need to bring unofficial transcripts to the department or instructor in record to
get an add code.
Failing to show proof or prerequisites may result in being dropped from the course.
My credits didn't transfer. What should I do?
These are your options:
Talk to your major advisor for a substitution or a waiver.
Depending on the course, you might need to submit a
petition.
If you're unsure,
make an appointment
with an ESSC advisor for their recommendations.
I took an AP exam. For which courses or GE areas will I receive SJSU course credit?
Go to the
SJSU catalog
and enter "Advanced Placement (AP) Exams" in the search field to view an equivalency
chart.
You will need to send your
official scores from College Board
to SJSU to apply these credits to your account.
What is the "temporary Area C waiver," and how does it relate to Area F?
The temporary Area C waiver for 2021-2022 has been approved for our college.
If you are a new transfer student starting Fall 2021, you will not be required to
complete Area F if you've had continuous enrollment at the community college
. During the process of transfer credit being posted and evaluated and continuous
enrollment verified, Evaluations will change your GE catalog year (different from
the major catalog year) to Fall 2020, which would keep you on the old GE pattern and
not require you to take Area F.
Transfer credit will continue to be evaluated and posted throughout the summer, so
once credit has been evaluated, please refer to eval@sjsu.edu if you have the continuous
enrollment but are being held to Area F.
Read the
CSU policy on GE requirements
.
What is the difference between a TEP and a substitution?
A
TEP
(transfer equivalency petition) is strictly for an external course with no articulation
agreement already. It is submitted by the student through a TEP process. Each college
manages a TEP for their courses.
Substitution
is when an advisor approves the use of one course (external credit or another SJSU
course) for another SJSU course. There could be an articulation agreement, or it could
be another SJSU course. Only the
department chair or faculty advisor
can make a substitution. This is the more flexible option.
Here are some examples of substitutions:
The student took an external course with no articulation agreement, but the course
is very close to an SJSU required course (e.g. CIS 22A from De Anza for CS 46A).
The student took an SJSU course from a different major, and it is close enough to
the current major requirement (e.g. AE 30 for ME 30).
The student submitted a TEP (transfer equivalency petition) which was rejected for
some reason or another, and the major advisor determines that the course satisfies
the major requirement (e.g. a physics course from an international university for
PHYS 50).
When in doubt,
meet with your major advisor
first.
Should I sign up for a course before I know whether transfer credit could be used
to meet a requirement through equivalency?
In general we advise checking in with your major advisor to determine whether a TEP
is best or necessary. We also advise not signing up for courses you think you have
a good chance of receiving credit for using transfer credit (especially as a new transfer
student).
When in doubt,
meet with your major advisor
first.
CMPE/SE: Can I use a lower-division course as a substitute for a required upper-division
course?
The CMPE/SE department will no longer consider petitions from students trying to substitute
a lower-division course for an upper-division SJSU course. Please
contact the CMPE/SE department
if you have questions.
For which course(s) do I use the College of Engineering (CoE) TEP?
CoE Transfer Equivalency Petition (TEP)
may be used only for:
).
The SJSU course needs to have a letter prefix listed
in bold
above.
Here are examples of CoE major courses
: ENGR 10, EE 98, CE 99, MATE 25, TECH 60, ME 101, AE 20, BME 25, AVIA 1, ISE 130,
CMPE 30, ME 20, CE 95
I need a TEP for math and other courses NOT in the College of Engineering. What should
I do?
The
College of Science
consists of the following departments: Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Geology,
Mathematics, Meteorology, and Physics.
Common examples of CoS courses for Engineering or Aviation majors
are MATH (all), PHYS (all), CHEM (all), CS (all), BIOL (all), GEOL 2.
To request equivalency for a
College of Science
course use the equivalency petition on their TEP
CoS-SSC webpage.
I already had transfer credit approved (equivalency or substitution), but it no longer
shows up in MyProgress. How can I get it added back?
Anything that causes your major prep and major requirements to change in MyProgress
will wipe out any previous updates that were manually made. This includes a change
of major or being DQ'ed (i.e. enrolled in Open University/Continuing Education instead
of SJSU). TEPs are not processed by ESSC. Students must work directly with the department
offering the course for updates on petition submission and credit postings.
Last Updated Jun 22, 2026