Frequently Asked Questions | Jack Holland Student Success Center
Skip to main content
Frequently Asked Questions
When should I see an advisor in the Jack Holland Student Success Center (JHSSC)?
Students should plan to meet with a JHSSC advisor at least once a semester for academic
planning (GE and major), graduation planning, and help with policies and procedures.
JHHSC advisors also sign off on many student forms as the Major Advisor.
A JHSSC Advisor can also refer you to the right place if you have a question or problem
and don't know where to turn.
What if I already have a Bachelor's Degree? How do I obtain a second baccalaureate
degree in business?
As of fall 2008, San Jose State University no longer allows students who already earned
a baccalaureate degree to apply for a second BS or BA degree. The only option at this
point is to consider a graduate degree program; prospective students should contact
the department they are interested in directly for eligibility criteria.
What is the criterion for a double concentration (major) in business?
Beginning in spring 2010, students are no longer permitted to declare a double major
in business. Students who are declared in a specific concentration in business cannot
declare a second concentration. Students who are declared in a major outside of the
Lucas College of Business, on rare occasion, may declare a business concentration
as a second major if both majors can be completed in 144 units or less.
How can I have incoming transfer credit reviewed to meet a major requirement?
Students must meet with a JHSSC advisor to submit an course equivalency petitions
for the major. Students must be able to provide a course syllabus from the academic
year they took the course that includes: textbook information; topics covered throughout
the term; a description of the weekly course lessons; and a description of methods
used for learning assessment.
Where can I check on course prerequisites?
Course prerequisites are listed in the San Jose State University Catalog. A hard-copy
catalog is no longer in print. With the onset of the automated course prerequisite
check it is the students' responsibility to ensure that they have met the prerequisites
prior to registration. In addition, if you have taken courses in another institution
make sure to submit official transcripts to Records as soon as possible to update
your file.
How do I get access to enroll in BUS1 121A?
Starting Fall 2026, enrollment into BUS1 121A is restricted to students declared in
the following concentrations: Accounting, AIS, and CAF. Other students may be able
to add the course if space is available once the semester begins; interested students
should speak to the course instructor on the first day of class for more information.
How can I change my major to Business? How can I change my concentration in Business?
Learn more about
declaring or changing to a business major
. A change of concentration is also considered a change of major.
How do I establish graduating senior status? When should I apply for graduation?
Graduating senior standing is granted for students who apply for graduation by the
priority deadline. Visit our
Graduation webpage
for information on how and when to apply.
How many units are required for each registration class level? Does that include work-in-progress?
Fall and Spring registration depends on class level: Freshmen (0-29.5 units); Sophomore
(30-59.5 units); Juniors (60-89.5 units); and Seniors (90+ units).
This includes courses in-progress for the current semester at SJSU.
What is “Grade Forgiveness” and how many attempts do I get?
Under the
Grade Forgiveness policy
, undergraduate students who receive grades of "C-" or below are eligible to repeat
courses taken at SJSU through Grade Forgiveness. Following completion of the course
the second time, the first grade will no longer be included in the student's GPA and
the second attempt will be the grade of record. However, the first grade will still
show on the transcript.
Students repeating a courses for the first time (second attempt) must wait until the
Repeat Date to enroll. See the the
Registration Calendar
for specific dates.
Students repeating a course for a second attempt (third attempt) must meet with an
advisor in the Jack Holland Student Success Center to petition in addition to waiting
for the Repeat Date to enroll.
Last Updated Sep 17, 2026