How To Apply | Department of Computer Science
Skip to main content
How to Apply
We encourage applicants holding a bachelor's degree in Computer Science or a related
discipline to apply to the MSCS program. The
Admissions Requirements
are found on the SJSU Catalog.
Application Status and Timeline
The
Fall admission review timeline
for the Computer Science department will begin in March and conclude by the end of
March.
Spring admission review timeline
will begin in November and conclude by the middle of November. Admission statuses
are to be checked by the applicant within their
MySJSU account
. For those that are referred to the department for review, do not expect a final
admission decision to be communicated through MySJSU until the end of March or middle
of November. No exceptions will be made to the timeline for this process.
GRE/Other Requirements
All applicants are required to take the GRE unless they are a resident in the state
of California. For the GRE test, there are no hard cut-offs. We use the scores to
compare and rank candidates.
A 4-year Bachelor degree is a minimum requirement for admission to the graduate school.
MSCS does NOT accept Duolingo scores.
Conditional Admission to the MSCS Program
If you do not fulfill all requirements for admission, and there is sufficient space
in the program, we may offer you conditional admission for in-state applicants. If
you are conditionally admitted, you will be expected to complete course work and/or
pass tests, as directed by the graduate coordinator.
There is no special procedure for conditional admission. Simply submit an application.
If You Are Not Admitted
If we cannot offer you full or conditional admission, you may still take courses through
the
Open University
program at San Jose State. Open University is a program which allows students who
have not been formally admitted to the University to take regular curriculum classes
on a space-available basis.
If You Have More Questions about Admissions Check out the
FAQ
(list of frequently asked questions)
Last Updated Feb 26, 2025