MSCS FAQ | Department of Computer Science
How do we fulfill the Foundations/Architecture/Systems Software and Specialty Courses
requirement?
Please refer to our
Requirements for Graduation
page. First, you will need to select
one
course from each of the listed classes under Foundations, Architecture,
and
Systems Software. After taking these courses(9 units), please select
any
three classes(9 units) from the Speciality Courses List
and
any of the classes in the Foundations/Architecture/Systems Software list.
When I tried adding a course, it denied me due to lack of prerequisites despite having
taken that course.
MySJSU does not automatically update your academic record if your transcript is not
from SJSU. Therefore, you will obtain a permission number by contacting the course
instructor at the start of the semester or attending the very first class and requesting
it from the instructor. Please bring along your prerequisite documents.
The CS Office is no longer providing permission numbers during Summer and Winter Sessions.
When should I take CS 297 and CS 298?
Most students take CS 297 in their third semester. However, please note you will need
to select an instructor to serve as your advisor and have their approval
before
enrolling into CS 297. You will also need to have taken and passed CS 200W beforehand.
CS 298 is taken in the semester following CS 297.
For Prospective Students
What does it cost to go to SJSU?
The most current information is on the
bursar's web page
.
I work during the day. Can I obtain the MSCS degree while working?
We try to offer graduate courses in the late afternoons and evenings or early in the
morning. Occasionally, you may have to take a course during the day; hopefully your
employer will help by allowing you to flex your schedule. You have up to 7 years (!)
to finish the degree, although we naturally don't recommend that you actually take
that long. Many of our students are professionals who obtain the MS degree while working
full-time.
I have been in California for X months/years. Am I entitled to in-state tuition?
Please check the
web-based SJSU Catalog
for more information.
I don't have a degree in computer science, can I be admitted?
For in-state applicants, if your degree is in a related discipline (such as Information
Systems), and there is space in the program, you may be admitted conditionally, with
extra prerequisite course requirements. Given that our program has many applicants,
for out-of-state applicants the odds that you will be accepted with a degree not directly
related to Computer Science or Computer Engineering are very low.
I am an international student. Is there additional information available?
The
International Programs and Student Services
.
What form of financial assistance is available from the department?
Unfortunately, financial assistance is very limited. The department does not offer
full scholarships or tuition waivers. A very limited number of teaching associate,
grader and lab monitor positions are available. However, these positions are not usually
open to incoming students. The salary for these positions is not high, and you should
not rely on them for financial support.
What is "Open University"?
"Open University," or "Continuing Education" at SJSU allows individuals that are not
registered in a degree program to take university courses. There are a number of restrictions.
There must be space available in the course after all degree program students have
registered.
The instructor must agree to admit the student.
The student must fulfill all prerequisites to the course.
At most 9 units of these courses can be transferred into the MSCS degree program.
You will need to have the transfer approved by the graduate coordinator.
Open University is intended for students who want to take a small number of courses
outside a degree program. It is not intended to provide courses that count towards
a degree program.
Should I apply to Computer Science or Software Engineering?
You should apply to the department that best fits with your interests and aspirations.
You may find the following definitions of Computer Science and Software Engineering
helpful for your decision-making process. These definitions are from the
Joint ACM/IEEE Computing Curricula 2005 Overview Report [pdf]
and are reproduced in their entirety.
Computer science spans a wide range, from its theoretical and algorithmic foundations
to cutting-edge developments in robotics, computer vision, intelligent systems, bioinformatics,
and other exciting areas. We can think of the work of computer scientists as falling
into three categories.
They design and implement software. Computer scientists take on challenging programming
jobs. They also supervise other programmers, keeping them aware of new approaches.
They devise new ways to use computers. Progress in the CS areas of networking, database,
and human-computer-interface enabled the development of the World Wide Web. Now CS
researchers are working with scientists from other fields to make robots become practical
and intelligent aides, to use databases to create new knowledge, and to use computers
to help decipher the secrets of our DNA.
They develop effective ways to solve computing problems. For example, computer scientists
develop the best possible ways to store information in databases, send data over networks,
and display complex images. Their theoretical background allows them to determine
the best performance possible, and their study of algorithms helps them to develop
new approaches that provide better performance.
Computer science spans the range from theory through programming. Curricula that reflect
this breadth are sometimes criticized for failing to prepare graduates for specific
jobs. While other disciplines may produce graduates with more immediately relevant
job-related skills, computer science offers a comprehensive foundation that permits
graduates to adapt to new technologies and new ideas.
Software engineering is the discipline of developing and maintaining software systems
that behave reliably and efficiently, are affordable to develop and maintain, and
satisfy all the requirements that customers have defined for them. This reflects its
origins as outlined in Section 2.2.2. More recently, it has evolved in response to
factors such as the growing impact of large and expensive software systems in a wide
range of situations and the increased importance of software in safety-critical applications.
Software engineering is different in character from other engineering disciplines
due to both the intangible nature of software and the discontinuous nature of software
operation. It seeks to integrate the principles of mathematics and computer science
with the engineering practices developed for tangible, physical artifacts. Prospective
students can expect to see software engineering presented in two contexts.
Degree programs in computer science offer one or more software engineering courses
as elements of the CS curriculum. Some offer a multi-course concentration in software
engineering within CS.
A number of institutions offer a software engineering degree program.
Degree programs in computer science and in software engineering have many courses
in common. Software engineering students learn more about software reliability and
maintenance and focus more on techniques for developing and maintaining software that
is correct from its inception. While CS students are likely to have heard of the importance
of such techniques, the engineering knowledge and experience provided in SE programs
go beyond what CS programs can provide. The importance of this fact is so great that
one of the recommendations of the SE report is that, during their program of study,
students of SE should participate in the development of software to be used in earnest
by others. SE students learn how to assess customer needs and develop usable software
that meets those needs. Knowing how to provide genuinely useful and usable software
is of paramount importance.
In the workplace, the term software engineer is a job label. There is no standard
definition for this term when used in a job description. Its meaning varies widely
among employers. It can be a title equivalent to computer programmer or a title for
someone who manages a large, complex, and/or safety-critical software project. The
layman must be mindful not confuse the discipline of software engineering with the
ambiguous use of the term software engineer as used in employment advertisements and
job titles.
What are the application deadlines?
Please see
Admission Deadlines
for up-to-date information about deadlines.
Do you accept incomplete applications?
International applicants have a month after the application deadline to submit letters
of recommendations.
Can you mail me the application materials?
No. You must apply to the university through the online web site (
http://www.csumentor.edu
).
What is the Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations office?
The
Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations
office administers all graduate admissions. It checks that your applications fulfill
the minimum university criteria for admission. It checks your transcripts, degree
certificates, TOEFL scores, visa status, and financial information. Once Graduate
Admissions is satisfied that you are qualified to join the university, then it forwards
your file to the department. In the CS department, we check your qualifications for
the master's program in computer science. Graduate Admissions determines if you can
be admitted to the University; if you are, then the Computer Science Department decides
whether to admit you to the MSCS program.
Where should I mail my application materials?
The application fee, official transcripts, degree certificates, TOEFL scores, visa
and financial information, all go to
Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations
office.
What are the application fees?
Please visit the
Prospective Students
page for the current university application fees.
Am I eligible for an application fee waiver?
Unfortunately, the CSU system does not allow application fee waivers for
graduate
applicants. The only exceptions at SJSU are given to military veterans, McNair scholars,
AB540 status holders, and CA residents applying to a regular session campus program
who present high economic need as reported within their Cal State Apply application
regarding household size and income. You can find more information on eligibility
for fee waivers
here
.
Can you look over my application before I submit it?
Sorry—we cannot help you with putting together your application. Simply submit your
application and provide the requested information. If we have questions after receiving
your application, we will contact you. It is important that you provide a current
email address for that purpose.
I need to know NOW whether you will accept me later, so that I can decide whether
I should try applying at a different department or university.
Unfortunately, we cannot give you a guarantee now that we will admit you later. It
is always a good idea to apply at more than one university.
I fulfill all requirements for admission. Am I guaranteed to be accepted?
Unfortunately, no. When there are more qualified applicants than we have space available
in the program, we offer admission to those whom we consider the most promising applicants,
until all of the available space is filled.
Should I provide letters of recommendation?
It is strongly recommended.
Where should letters of recommendation be mailed?
We encourage you to submit recommendation letters online through Cal State Apply portal.
Applicants can provide information for each Recommender asking them for recommendation
letters online.
We would still accept hard-copy recommendation letters. Either include them, in sealed
envelopes, with the documents that you send to the Graduate Admissions office, or,
if your recommenders mail them directly, ask that they be mailed to the CS department
and not the Graduate Admissions office. The mailing address is:
We do not accept letters of recommendation by email.
Is there a special form for recommendation letters?
Letters must be on university or company stationery.
Letter of recommendation should be at most 2 pages in length.
There is no special form. Please tell your recommenders to address the following questions:
How long has the recommender known you, and in what capacity?
How does the recommender rate your computer science achievements? Compared to what
pool?
What specific achievements in computer science did the recommender observe?
If sending through mail, letters must additionally be sealed in university or company
envelopes.
How can I request a confidential letter of recommendation?
U.S. law states that you have access to all records in your student file unless you
have explicitly waived this right. Recommenders may be more inclined to write candid
letters, and those letters may be given more credence, if you do so. You can waive
your rights to see your recommendation letters by selecting "Yes" to the waiver of
recommendation option in the online application.
If you are sending hardcopy, please follow steps below -
Write a letter to the person providing you the letter of recommendation. Include these
sentences: "I am asking you to write a letter of recommendation on my behalf and to
send it to the Graduate Coordinator, Department of Computer Science, San Jose State
University, San Jose, CA 95192-0249. I understand that, under the Family Educational
Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), I have the right to see this letter of recommendation.
I hereby waive my right of access under FERPA with respect to this letter of recommendation."
Sign and date the letter.
Write a letter to "Graduate Coordinator, Department of Computer Science, San Jose
State University, San Jose, CA 95192-0249.". Include these sentences: "I have asked
X, Y, and Z to write letters of recommendation on my behalf to support my application
for the W term. I understand that, under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy
Act (FERPA), I have the right to see these letters of recommendation. I hereby waive
my right of access under FERPA with respect to these letters of recommendation." Sign
and date the letter.
My BSCS degree is older than 7 years. Can I still apply for the MSCS program?
Yes, but there is the possibility that you might only be admitted with the condition
that you take some refresher courses.
Can the TOEFL/IELTS/PTE requirement be waived?
TOEFL/IELTS/PTE will only be waived once the official transcripts have been reviewed
(by GAPE) proving that one of the criteria below has been met.
Received a Bachelor’s or Master’s degree from a regionally accredited institution
within the U.S.
Completed 3 years of full-time coursework in a regionally accredited institution within
the U.S.
Completed a Bachelor's or Master's degree from one of the countries outside of the
US meet the requirement (see full list below)*.
* the U.S., U.S. Territories, Canada – excluding Quebec, Commonwealth Caribbean (Antigua,
Bahamas, Belize Barbados, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago), U.K. (England,
Ireland, Scotland, and Wales), Australia, New Zealand and the Philippines. Refer Step
applicants.
Can the GRE requirement be waived?
All applicants are
required
to take the GRE unless they are a
resident in the state of California
.
Students who finished their BS in Computer Science from SJSU or any CSU or any UC
have their GRE waived.
What TOEFL and GRE scores do I need to have to be accepted?
If you are an international student, you need a TOEFL score of 550 (paper)/213 (computer).
This is a requirement of Graduate Admissions. For the GRE test, there are no hard
cut-offs. We use the scores to compare and rank candidates.
Are Duolingo scores acceptable?
Answer: MSCS does NOT accept Duolingo scores.
What is the status of my application?
The department does not give out status information. You can check your status online
by signing in to
one.sjsu.edu
and then search for the MySJSU tile. Use the user ID and password in your confirmation
email.
Did you recently change the admission requirements?
Admission to the MSCS program is a competitive process. We continually monitor the
number of applicants and the number of spaces in the program. We periodically revise
our guidelines to give students accurate guidance for submitting successful applications.
What are my chances of being admitted?
Please note that we cannot predict your "chances" of being admitted to the program.
However, you may find the following guidelines helpful. We are looking for students
with a recent BSCS or a related degree. If you meet these criteria, we would like
to encourage you to apply. If you are an in-state applicant with a degree in another
computer or information technology related discipline, and we have space in the program,
we may admit you conditionally and ask you to enroll in preparatory classes.
I took college courses in (C|C++|Java|Cobol|Perl|Unix|Oracle) programming. Do you
consider these courses when evaluating my computer science background?
No.
I took certification courses in (Novell|Unix|NT) system administration. Can I use
them instead of college courses as course equivalencies?
No.
What is a typical set of computer science courses that you might expect of an applicant?
Here are some typical courses. This is not a complete list, but it should give you
a flavor of the kind of courses that are typically a part of a BSCS degree.
A typical BSCS program will expect students to complete about 12 junior/senior level
CS courses (i.e. not counting introduction to programming).
Why are you requiring all this coursework? I am an experienced software engineer and
shouldn't have to take these academic prerequisites.
You don't need a master's degree to have a successful career in the computer industry.
A master's degree is an academic endeavor for those who are interested in the fundamental
principles of computer science. We believe that an academic undergraduate background
is an appropriate prerequisite for the master's program.
I am self-taught in computer science, and I don't want to take a lot of undergraduate
courses that repeat what I already know. Is there another way to prove my knowledge
in computer science?
Unfortunately, with the demise of the GRE CS Subject Test, there no longer is an easy
way of demonstrating your self-taught knowledge. You may want to take several CS courses
through open university at SJSU and get letters of recommendation from your professors.
I already took some graduate level computer science courses at another institution
or through SJSU's Open University. Can I transfer them into the SJSU MSCS program
once I am admitted?
Yes, but there are three restrictions:
You can transfer at most 6 units (2 courses)
These courses must not have counted towards any prior degree ("no double dipping")
The courses must be less than 7 years old.
I concluded that I need to take quite a few courses to prepare myself for admission
to the MSCS program. Can I be conditionally admitted and take the courses as an MSCS
student?
We may admit in-state students on a conditional basis if the number of fully qualified applicants is less
than the available space in the CS program.
I was accepted with a condition, but I don't like the condition. Can I negotiate to
have it waived or changed?
No. The condition is part of our admission offer to you. This is our final offer,
and it is not subject to negotiation. If you do not want to fulfill the condition,
or you do not think that you are able to, then you should not accept our offer of
conditional admission.
I will be completing my undergraduate degree in the same semester in which I submit
an application. Is that ok?
Be sure to clearly indicate that you expect to earn your BS in the current semester.
Completing the degree will be a condition for admission. Note that the date that the
degree is conferred must be before the first day of classes in the graduate program.
I do not have a 4-year Bachelor degree. Can I be admitted to the MSCS program?
No, a 4-year Bachelor degree is a minimum requirement for admission to the graduate
school.
I have a 3-year degree from another country. Can I be admitted to the MSCS program?
No, a 4-year Bachelor degree is a minimum requirement for admission to the graduate
school. However, some students with a 3-year degree have gone on to do one or two
more years of post baccalaureate work in computer science. These applicants will be
handled on a case by case basis.
Can I use work experience to fulfill some of the entrance requirements?
No, we do not accept experience in the workplace as a substitute for academic requirements.
The California State University policy states that in unusual cases, the department
may make exceptions to the 4-year Bachelor degree requirement. Does your department
make these exceptions?
No.
My application was rejected, but I disagree. Can I appeal?
No.
My application was rejected. Can I find out why?
No. We rank applications, and pick the highest ranking ones. For privacy reasons,
it is not possible for you to compare your application against others.
If you were not accepted, then that does not mean that we find you unqualified. It
usually means that we have had more applicants than we were able to accommodate and,
in our opinion, you did not rank among the top ones.
My application was rejected. Can I join the program on a part-time or conditional
basis?
No. There is no separate part-time program. If we had been able to accept you on a
conditional basis, then we would have done so. If your application was rejected, the
only way you might be admitted is to reapply.
My application was rejected by the Graduate Admissions office. Can you intervene on
my behalf?
No. The Graduate Admissions office determines whether you fulfill the minimum entrance
requirements to join a graduate program at San Jose State University. If the Graduate
Admissions office determines that you did not meet those requirements, or that you
did not submit required documents in a timely manner, the CS department cannot intervene.
My application for a previous semester was rejected, but I would like to be reconsidered
for the next semester. Can I submit additional materials without reapplying?
No. Your previous application is no longer active. You need to reapply. The department
will make an effort to keep letters of recommendations for a semester, so you may
not need to resubmit these. The Graduate Admissions office may be able to locate your
old transcripts. Check with both offices to see if your old materials are still available.
My application was rejected, and I would like to reapply. What can I do to improve
my chances?
Here are some suggestions:
Complete an undergraduate CS degree.
Submit letters of recommendation that show exceptional promise in computer science
Submit other evidence of exceptional promise such as publications, open-source software
contributions, patents, etc.
For Current Students
The program requirements have changed since I started in the MSCS program. Which requirements
do I need to follow in order to graduate?
You may choose to follow the requirements that were in place when you started, or
those that are in place when you file for candidacy.
How can I learn about the various policies and procedures that graduate students need
to follow?
The Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations office has several important resources
on the
Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations web site
for prospective and current graduate students
I was admitted as a conditionally classified student and fulfilled my conditions a
long time ago. Why am I still listed as "conditionally classified"?
There isn't anyone who is monitoring your admission conditions and completed courses
on your behalf. YOU need to apply for "fully classified status". You will be "fully
classified" after you have completed your conditions AND have applied for change of
status. Submit a change of status form using the
Forms
page on GAPE's website.
I have been accepted to the program but I won't be able to attend for another semester.
Can I defer my acceptance?
Unfortunately, you will need to reapply. However, if you inform us that you were accepted
in the prior semester, then you need not supply transcripts and letters of recommendations
again. You will need to pay the application fee. If more than one semester has passed
since your acceptance, you will need to reapply and resubmit all materials.
I have already been admitted to the MSCS program and would like help in planning my
program of study.
Please see a graduate advisor. Please visit the Computer Science
Faculty Advisors
page for more information about contacting an advisor.
I already wrote (a master's thesis|a best-selling novel|a letter to my mom). Do I
still have to take Technical Writing at SJSU?
There are six ways to satisfy the Competency in Written English requirement; these
are listed in
the requirements document from the GAPE site
. The last three require a meeting with the graduate coordinator, for the first three
on your candidacy form you just indicate which one applies to you and GAPE can check
it.
What happens if my GPA drops to 3.0 or less?
If your cumulative GPA is less than 3.0, then you are on probation. If you are on
probation, you cannot graduate.
You will be disqualified from the MSCS program if your semester GPA is not above 3.0.
Go to
Policies and Procedures
, then follow the links General Graduate Policies & Procedures > Academic Standing.
Then read the articles Probation and Disqualification.
Once your cumulative GPA is again at least 3.0, you are no longer on probation. You
should try very hard not to get onto probation in the first place. You should plan
on getting a B+ or better in all your courses. If you do end up getting less than
a B, make sure that you have another course to make up for it.
How do I register when I am on probation?
1. Prepare a calculation of your current cumulative GPA to show to your advisor.
2. Select a set of (easy) courses for the coming semester and estimate the grade that
you will get in each of them. (You are shooting for an A, of course.) Calculate the
cumulative GPA that you will have at the end of the semester under your assumptions,
so you can show that calculation to your advisor.
3. Read up on the probation and disqualification rules in the university calendar
so that you know what will happen if you don't meet your goals. Be prepared to explain
the rules to your advisor.
4. Get a form for lifting the probation hold from the department office.
5. Meet with
your advisor
. Explain to them how you got on probation and how you intend to get off probation.
6. Have your advisor sign the probation hold form and return it to the department
office.
What happens if I get a D or F in a class?
(1) You cannot use that class for graduation. You can repeat it or select another
course.
(2) Your GPA will suffer, and you'll probably go on probation.
I was put on probation, and now I can't register for classes. What should I do?
Go to the department office and get a form for removing your registration hold, then
go to your advisor to discuss your situation. Your advisor needs to sign the hold
form.
I got disqualified from the program. What should I do?
You can file a petition for reinstatement. Usually, such a petition involves your
committing to take a selection of undergraduate (!) courses, to be approved by the
graduate coordinator, that (a) more adequately prepares you for graduate study and
(b) lifts your cumulative GPA. These courses do not count towards your graduate degree.
I would like to take a course from another department. What should I do?
Before you register, fill out an evaluation form (available in the department office),
and attach a syllabus for the course. The graduate coordinator will evaluate the syllabus,
or ask a faculty member who is familiar with the subject matter to carry out the evaluation.
Courses may be approved as option courses or elective courses, at the discretion of
the graduate advisor.
When should I fill out my candidacy form?
Candidacy forms will not be approved by GAPE until you have completed the GWAR requirement.
The form serves as an agreement between you and GAPE -- if you pass these classes
at the appropriate level then a degree will be awarded. So, if you decide to take
a different set of courses, you will need to file an update to your candidacy form.
Usually, students fill out this form at a minimum one semester before they graduate.
Deadlines can be found on the
GAPE
site.
Where can I find more information about theses and writing projects?
Details on Theses and Writing Projects can be found on the
Project/Thesis Guidelines
page.
Whom should I direct my RCL - Reduced Course Load form for signature/approval?
Your CS 297/298 advisor is the one who should be signing your RCL forms.
Who should be signing my ISSS Culminating Experience Form - Culminating Experience
Confirmation - F-1 Students Only?
Find more about this form: https://www.sjsu.edu/isss/current-students/f1-status/culminating.php?
under How to File the ISSS Culminating Experience Form.
Your CS 297/298 advisors
When are your office hours?
Please see the web page at
https://www.sjsu.edu/cs/students/office-hours.php
to find office hours details.
Last Updated Nov 6, 2025