Repeats: Unauthorized/Inadmissible FAQs | Office of the Registrar
Skip to main content
Repeats: Unauthorized/Inadmissible FAQs
What is an inadmissible repeat?
An inadmissible repeat occurs when you repeat a course for which you have already
received a passing grade.
Example: You took PSYCH 001 at Evergreen and earned a B, Summer 2019.  You registered
for PSYC 1 at SJSU, Fall 2019.  PYSC 1 at SJSU is considered an inadmissible repeat.
What happens when there is an inadmissible repeat in my record?
We will remove all credit earned from the second attempt.
Do you look only for the inadmissible repeats in my SJSU records or do you also review
transfer coursework?
We look at all your coursework, SJSU and transfer work.
Where can I check if I have an inadmissible repeat?
You can review the Ineligible Coursework section located on the bottom section of
your MyProgress.
Who can I contact if I have an inadmissible repeat?
If you have not applied for graduation, contact the Evaluations Department at eval@sjsu.
If you have applied for graduation, contact
your graduation evaluator
.
Can I petition to count the inadmissible repeat?
No
How do I know if a course can be repeated for credit?
You can search and review
the course description in the course catalog
.
If a course I took articulates to more than one course at SJSU, can the course count
for one of the other options?
A course from a community college may articulate to one or more courses at SJSU.  (For
example, MATH 63 from EVC articulates to SJSU’s ECON 3 or BUS 90 or STAT 95, etc.)
If you have not applied for graduation, contact the Evaluations Department at eval@sjsu.edu.
If you have applied for graduation, contact
your graduation evaluator
.
Before I register for a course, where can I check if I’ve already taken the course?
You can review all your coursework in your MySJSU on the Course History tab.
Before registering for a course at a community college, where can I check if the course
is articulated to a course that I’ve already taken at SJSU?
You can check
SJSU’s articulation page
.  Be sure to see an academic advisor if you have questions.
I still have questions about inadmissible repeats. Who can I contact?
Contact an advisor at
your academic student success center.
Last Updated Jul 29, 2026