Repeats and Grade Forgiveness - Registrar | Office of the Registrar
Skip to main content
Repeats and Grade Forgiveness
Repeat Policy
Students are allowed to repeat a course in which they earned a non-passing grade or
if they did not meet the minimum grade requirements for the course.  Students are
not allowed to repeat a course in which they already earned a passing grade, unless
the course is designated as 'repeatable for credit'.  Please see the
Repeat Policy [pdf]
for complete details, including undergraduate and graduate specific policies.
Students who received a "W" in their first attempt at a course are not considered
to be repeating a course. They can register anytime before the semester starts.
Registering for Repeats
Fall and Spring: students repeating a class for the first time may start registering
via MySJSU 3 weeks before the semester starts. See
the specific term calendar
for repeaters start date.
Summer and Winter: students repeating a class for the first time may start registering
via MySJSU before the semester starts. See more details: for
Winter
, or
Summer
.
Students repeating a class for the second or more times (i.e. attempting a class for
third time) or students who have repeated 28 or more units must submit the
Petition for a Repeat Exception
(DocuSign). Once processed, you will receive notification of when you may enroll in
the class or add yourself to the waitlist if the class is full.
The deadline to register for any repeated courses is the Last Day to Add/ Drop of
the term.  See the specific
Registration Calendar
for exact dates.
Grade forgiveness is the circumstance in which a new grade replaces the former grade
with respect to the Grade Point Average (GPA) calculation.  The original grade remains
on the transcript. However, the student's GPA will be refreshed using points earned
by the new grade, regardless if the new grade is higher or lower than the original.
Note that this only applies to courses taken and repeated at SJSU.
Students may choose to opt out of grade forgiveness by filing the Opt Out Petition
on
this page
.
See the
Grade Forgiveness policy [pdf]
, including unit limits.
Grade Averaging Policy
After the pool of Grade Forgiveness units have been depleted or used to the fullest
extent allowable, the repeated grade shall not replace the original grade. Instead
grade points and units from all attempts shall be calculated in the student's SJSU
cumulative GPA and overall GPA.
Repeating a class two or more times may result in grade averaging or in grade forgiveness,
which will be determined at the time of processing. See
University Policy F08-2 [pdf]
for complete descriptions.
See the
Grade Averaged policy [pdf]
.
Last Updated Jun 22, 2026