Registration Basics | Office of the Registrar
Skip to main content
Registration Basics
What Are
Enrollment Appointments?
How Are Enrollment Appointments Set, and Why Do Some Students Register Earlier?
Why Don't I Have an Enrollment Appointment?
.
How to Add Classes?
and
How to Drop Classes?
Where to Enter a Permission Number(Add Code)
?
Swap Class Enrollment Function
Repeating a Class:
When and How to Register?
Common Registration Issues
1290R Enrollment for Graduate Students
Enrollment Appointments
Your enrollment appointment is when you can start registering for classes online through
MySJSU—no in-person visit required. It will be posted on MySJSU about three months
before the semester starts and will end the day before the Enrollment Census Date.
New students will receive their appointments later than continuing students. See
Registration Calendar
for more details.
To view your enrollment appointment, login to your MySJSU, click "Academics: Enrollment"
link, then click Enrollment Dates, your available terms will show in the middle window.
See screenshot:
How Are Enrollment Appointments Set, and Why Do Some Students Register Earlier?
.
See
F17-4 Academic Senate policy [pdf]
for descriptions of priority students & registration groups.
. The order of the last name groups within the same class level rotates each semester.
All priority students and registration groups are approved by
the Student Success Committee of the
Academic Senate
.
.
Why Don't I Have an Enrollment Appointment?
Check these 3 reasons:
1. If it is your first semester at SJSU, you must wait until the Admissions office
fully admits you. Contact
Admissions office
for your admission status.
2. Graduation Date has passed. You applied to graduate in the last semester but did
not graduate.
You will not receive enrollment appointments for any term after your graduation date.
You need to
submit a graduation date change
.
3. You have not enrolled for 2 consecutive semesters(Spring & Fall).
You will need to re-apply. Check
Admissions website for Former Student returning(FSR)
.
Contact our office
if you still have questions.
Swap Class Enrollment Function
The Swap class enrollment function allows you to replace an enrolled class with another
open or waitlisted class. To learn more, go to
FAQs for Swapping Classes
.
Common Registration Issues:
Your enrollment appointment has not yet started.
Verify the exact start date and time of your appointment
.
You can register at any time once your appointment has started.
You have
registration hold(s)
on your account.
Graduation Date has passed.
You will not receive enrollment appointments for any term after your graduation date.
You need to
submit a graduation date change
.
Prerequisites are missing.
If you took a prerequisite course elsewhere, show proof of that course (unofficial
transcript) to the instructor. Then, ask for a
permission number
from him/ her.
Use that permission number to
enroll in the class via MySJSU(see page 5) [pdf]
.
See the
Transfer Credit
page for more details.
Co-requisite is required.
Some classes require you to simultaneously enroll in a component class such as a lab
or workshop.
You must register for both the lecture & a component at the same time.
If you are exempt from co-requisite, a memo on a department letterhead is required.
Email
registrar@sjsu.edu
this letter, our staff need to register for you.
Time Conflict (schedules of two or more classes are overlapping).
Initiate the Time Conflict Consent Request
(DocuSign)
to the instructor of the class you are not yet enrolled in -- the one that will accommodate
the time conflict. See
step-by-step instructions
.
You have exceeded the number of enrollment units or waitlist limit allowed.
See
Enrollment Limit and Waitlist page
.
You are a "special session" student trying to enroll in "regular session" classes
or vice versa.
Choose "special session" section of the class if you are a special session student
or choose "regular session" section of the class if you are a regular session student.
Look at class details. Section# 10 and above are usually "special session" sections,
section# 1 through 9 are usually "regular session" sections. See screenshot:
9.
You are repeating a class.
See
when and how to register for repeat & grade forgiveness
.
10. You already enrolled in another section of the same class.
You must drop the other section of the same class in order to add the new section.
You cannot be enrolled from the waitlist until you drop the other enrolled section.
11.
Permission number
you received is not valid or has been used.
Contact the instructor of the class to obtain a new one.
12.
You want to enroll in SJSU Studies class (Areas: R, S, V or Z) but have not earned
60 units or above (upper division standing).
Petition to enroll with less than 60 units
is needed.
For all other issues, please
contact us
.
Last Updated Aug 28, 2026