Enrollment Limits and Waitlist | Office of the Registrar
Skip to main content
Enrollment Limits and Waitlist
Enrollment Limits:
Undergraduate Students
Initial Limit:
17 units starting on the first day of registration.
(See
the current term calendar
for specific dates.)
New Admits and Students on Academic Notice:
Limited to
17 units
for the entire registration period.
Increased Limit (19 Units):
Applies to:
Graduating seniors
who applied for graduation with the Registrar’s Office by the published deadline.
Continuing students in good standing
.
(See
the current term calendar
for when the increase begins.)
Excess Units Petition (up to 21 Units):
Available to
continuing students in good standing
who need to enroll above 19 units.
date.
Excess Units Petition [pdf]
Graduate Students
Enrollment Limit:
16 units per semester.
Excess Units Petition:
Graduate students wishing to enroll in more than 16 units should petition their college
to enroll in up to 18 units.
See Excess Units section on GAPE website
.
. Department policies take precedence over university limits and will be enforced.
Waitlist
How does waitlist work?
for:
Waitlist start and end dates
Automated Reprioritization & Variable Waitlist Unit Limit start date
How does waitlist work?
When a class is full, you may join its waitlist in MySJSU. Refer to Step 8 in the
Add a Class guide
for instructions on how to select the
"Waitlist"
box
to join the waitlist.
Each night, the system automatically tries to enroll you if seats are open and you
meet all the enrollment conditions below
. If you don't meet some of the conditions, you will be skipped, and the next student
in line will be considered. You can only get another chance if a spot opens later.
Tip
:
use the swap function
to automatically replace an enrolled class with a waitlisted class if a spot opens.
Automatic enrollment conditions:
You meet all the prerequisites.
You don't have any
time conflicts
with other classes.
You are not enrolled in a different section of the same class.
You are not repeating a class.
Check when and how to enroll for first repeat or multiple repeat
.
If the class has a component, such as workshop or laboratory, it also needs to have
an open seat.
The waitlisted class won't put you over
your enrollment limit
(you can use the
swap function
to help get into the waitlisted class and avoid going over your limit)
You don't have any holds on your account. If you need to clear a hold, check out
the Registration Holds page
.
It is your responsibility to monitor your waitlist and drop yourself if you no longer
want a spot. To drop yourself from waitlist, follow the same steps as
dropping an enrolled class
. You are charged only after you’re successfully enrolled. Check your class schedule
and balance daily.
Automated Waitlist Reprioritization
The waitlist is automatically updated to give priority to students that are graduating
soon. You’ll move to the top of the waitlist if you meet one of the following:
Graduating seniors who applied for graduation in the current term or within the next
two terms (Spring, Summer, or Fall).
Graduate students with an approved candidacy form on file and a minimum of 21 units
earned
Variable Waitlist Unit Limit
Undergraduate Students
During the first three weeks of registration, you can waitlist up to 5 units.
After that, your waitlist limit changes to a Variable Waitlist Unit Limit, which equals:
17 minus your enrolled units
. Example: If you’re enrolled in 9 units, you can waitlist up to 8 more units (17
- 9 = 8).
Important Notes:
The system updates your limit overnight after you enroll in
at least one course
.
The maximum waitlist total is 17 units, even with an approved excess unit petition.
Once you’re enrolled in 12 or more units, your waitlist limit stays at 5 units.
Graduate Students
You can waitlist up to 5 units during the entire registration period.
Last Updated May 7, 2026